.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd044.2,v 2.6 2022/03/28 18:37:12 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|buffer|macro
.so me.tni
.TH execute-buffer 2
.XI execute-buffer \- "Execute script lines from a buffer"
.XI execute-line - "Execute a typed in script line"
.SH NAME
.Me "|execute-buffer"
execute-buffer \- Execute script lines from a buffer
.br
.Me "|execute-line"
execute-line \- Execute a script line from the command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B execute-buffer
"\fIbuffer-name\fR"
.br
.I n
.B execute-line
["\fIcommand-line\fR"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B execute-buffer
executes script lines in the named buffer  \fIbuffer-name\fR. If the buffer is
off screen and an error  occurs  during  execution,  the cursor is left on the
line causing the error.
.PP
If numeric argument \fIn\fR is given to \fBexecute-buffer\fP then macro argument
.Ht @? 4
will be set to 1 and
.Ht @# 4
to \fIn\fR,  otherwise  \fB@?\fR and \fB@#\fR will be set to 0 and 1 respectively.  These variables can be used by the
macro code during the execution of the buffer.
.PP
.B execute-line
executes a in script line  entered from the command  line,  typically  this command is used in macros. If bit 2 of the
given  numeric  argument  \fBn\fR  is set  then  the  command  returns  an  error if there is more  text  given in the
command-line than is executed, for example
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
3 execute-line "set-variable #g0 1 2"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Will throw an error as \fC" 2"\fP is not used, this can be useful in tracking down macro errors. Note the \fB@?\fR and
\fB@#\fR macro argument variables are also set.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht execute-file 2 ,
.Ht execute-string 2 ,
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.ad
.FH
