.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd025.2,v 2.6 2005-01-23 15:28:55 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|registry
.so me.tni
.TH list-registry 2
.XI list-registry - "Display the registry in a buffer"
.SH NAME
list-registry \- Display the registry in a buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B list-registry
["\|\fIpath\fR\|"] 
["\|\fIbuffer\fR\|"] 
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B list-registry
lists the contents of the registry in the a buffer in a hierarchical format.
The key name and any associated  string is optionally  shown as a hierarchical
tree, the resultant information that is displayed is controlled by the numeric
argument \fIn\fR and mode of the registry node. 
.PP
The registry listing is generated in the buffer "\fC*registry*\fR" by default,
the buffer may be modified with the \fIbuffer\fR argument.
.PP
The numerical argument \fIn\fR is interpreted as a bit-mask as follows:-
.IP \fI1\fR
If bit  \fC0x1\fR  is clear  then the  listing  buffer  is  specified  by the
argument \fIbuffer\fR. The default (when set) used buffer \fC*registry*\fR.
.IP \fI2\fR
If bit  \fC0x2\fR  is set the path of the root of the  registry  is defined by
argument \fIpath\fR. The default when clear is to list the whole registry.
.PP
The visibility of the node is controlled by the attributes assigned by
.Ht  mark-registry  2 .
The node value may be hidden (modes \fC!\fR,  \fCi\fR and \fCh\fR) and are not
displayed in the resultant listing.
.SH HISTORY
The numeric argument to 
.B list-registry 
with  associated  parameters  and extended  hidden modes were added in January
2005.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-registry 3 ,
.Ht delete-registry 2 ,
.Ht mark-registry 2 ,
.Ht read-registry 2 ,
.Ht save-history 2 ,
.Ht save-registry 2 ,
.Ht set-registry 2 ,
.Ht &reg 4 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
