.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd100.2,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH popup-window 2
.XI popup-window - "Pop-up a window on the screen"
.SH NAME
popup-window \- Pop-up a window on the screen
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B popup-window
"\fIname\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B popup-window
manages  the display of a new window on the screen. If only one window  exists
then it will be split else the current window will changed to one of the other
existing  visible  windows. If the given buffer name  "\fIname\fR" is not null
("") then the buffer is created, if it does not exist, and swapped in.
.PP
The numeric argument \fIn\fR alters the behavior of the command as follows:
.IP \fC0\fR
When  \fIn\fR is zero is given then the  command  only  succeeds  if the given
buffer is already being  displayed in an existing  window, this window is made
current. 
.IP \fC1\fR
When \fIn\fR is 1 and the given buffer is not visible then a window displaying
a system  buffer is chosen in  preference.  A system  buffer is one who's name
starts with a '\fC*\fR' character, e.g. "\fC*help*\fR". window used to display
.IP \fC2\fR
When \fIn\fR is 2 the frame  containing  the buffer is made current, this will
interact  with the  window  manager  and bring  \*(mS to the top of the window
stack and bring it into focus. The \fIname\fR argument is not required.
.IP \fC3\fR
When \fIn\fR is 3 then the frame  position on the Desktop Window is allowed to
be  re-positioned,  this is  typically  called  after a font  change or screen
re-size  operation  and ensures  that the \*(mS  window is  positioned  on the
screen. The \fIname\fR argument is not required.
.IP \fC4\fR
When \fIn\fR is 4 then both the frame  position  and frame size on the Desktop
Window is adjusted, this is the same as \fC3\fR except the frame size may also
be adjusted to fit on the desktop. The \fIname\fR argument is not required.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-buffer 2 .
.ad
.FH
