.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd124.2,v 2.6 2023/02/21 11:29:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|transposition
.so me.tni
.TH generate-hash 2
.XI generate-hash - "Generate SHA1 or SHA256 hash or HMAC"
.SH NAME
generate-hash \- Generate SHA1 or SHA256 hash or HMAC
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B generate-hash
[ "\fIkey\fR" ] [ "\fIdata\fR" ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B generate-hash
computes  the SHA256 hash value of the current  buffer's  content, as if it were written to file in its current  state
(i.e. the binary, line and file termination modes are taken into consideration). The hash is then turned into a hex string and
the
.Ht $result 5
variable is set to the resultant 64 byte string.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is a bit based flag used to modify the default  behaviour of the  command,  where the bits are defined as
follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If bit 2 is clear this defines  whether the hash will be generated  for the current  region (if clear) or whole buffer
(if set). If bit 2 is set then this bit  determines  whether the input  \fIdata\fR  is a hex-string  (if set) or plain
text.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the user is prompted  for the  \fIdata\fR,  in plain text or  hex-string  form (see bit 0x01) rather than the
current region or buffer.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set a HMAC is calculated instead, the user will be prompted for the \fIkey\fR.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
When calculating a HMAC, setting this bit indicates the \fIkey\fR is given in the form of a hex-string.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
When set a SHA1 based hash/HMAC is calculated instead.
.SH EXAMPLE
To calculate the hash of a string use:
.RS
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
2 generate-hash "Hello world"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.RE
.PP
After executing the SHA256 hash value will be stored in \fB$result\fR. To calculate a HMAC-SHA256 of a string use:
.RS
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
6 generate-hash "TheKey" "Hello world"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.RE
.PP
After executing \fB$result\fR will be set to \fC1804C1869D6DD76A9A8D00819E6F62E970D981F01FE805F927CF4E3BDF4AD95C\fR.
.SH NOTES
When using an argument of 2 the data must be a plain text string  which means it cannot  contain a byte of value 0. If
the hash of binary data is required then set bit 1 and convert to a hex-string or create a temporary buffer, enable
.Ht rbin 2m
mode, insert the data as a hex string and then call  \fBgenerate-hash\fR  with no argument to  calculate  the buffer's
hash.
.PP
When calculating the hash of a region, if
.Ht binary 2m
or
.Ht rbin 2m
modes are enabled then the whole of the region's  first line is always  included , as is the whole of the last line if
the region's end point column is greater than 0. If neither of these modes are enabled then the
.Ht cr 2m 
and 
.Ht lf 2m 
line termination modes are taken into account, as is the
.Ht ctrlz 2m 
end of file mode.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht rbin 2m ,
.Ht cr 2m ,
.Ht lf 2m ,
.Ht ctrlz 2m ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Hr SHA1 3 ,
.Hr SHA256 3 ,
.Hr HMAC-SHA256 3 .
.ad
.FH
