.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd019.2,v 2.10 2009-08-29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop|search
.so me.tni
.TH search-buffer 2
.XI search-buffer - "Search the current buffer for a string"
.SH NAME
search-buffer \- Search the current buffer for a string
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBsearch-buffer\fR "\fIflags\fR" "\fIstring\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B search-buffer
searches for a  \fIstring\fR  from the current  cursor  position, in a forwards
or backwards  direction, to the end or start of the buffer,  respectively. The
search direction and mode is specified by the by \fIflags\fR argument.
.PP
The
.B search-buffer
command is designed to be used from the macro language rather than the command
line as the search may be defined independently of the buffer setting of
.Ht magic 2m
mode,
which allows regular expression pattern matching,
or
.Ht exact 2m
mode,
which makes the search case sensitive. The \fIflags\fR argument is used to
explicitly set the
.Ht magic 2m
and
.Ht exact 2m
search modes.
.PP
The  \fIflags\fR  argument is defined as a character  string which defines the
search behavior:
.IP "\fCb\fR - backward search"
Specifies the direction  of the search as  backwards,  when  omitted  then a
forward search is performed.
.IP "\fCe\fR - enable exact search"
A
.Ht exact 2m
mode search is performed, the characters are matched case sensitively.
.IP "\fCE\fR - disable exact search"
A
.Ht exact 2m
mode search is not performed, the characters are matched case insensitively.
.IP "\fCm\fR - enable magic"
A
.Ht magic 2m
mode search is performed, the  search \fIstring\fR is interpreted as a regular
expression.
.IP "\fCM\fR - disable magic"
A
.Ht magic 2m
mode   search  is  not   performed,   the  search   string  is  searched   for
literally.
.LP
When the \fIflags\fR are not specified then the default  behavior is to search
in a forwards direction inheriting the
.Ht exact 2m
and
.Ht magic 2m
modes of the buffer.  Within macros it is suggested  that the search modes are
explicitly specified unless the buffer modes are to be inherited.
.PP
.ne 7
The numeric argument \fIn\fR is interpreted in the same way as a
.Ht search-forward 2
command:-
.IP "\fBn > 0\fR"
The \fIn\fRth occurrence of the \fIstring\fR is located.
.IP "\fBn < 0\fR"
The first occurrence of the \fIstring\fR is located in the next \fIn\fR lines.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The command returns a status of \fCFALSE\fR if the  \fIstring\fR  could not be
located (or \fIn\fRth  \fIstring\fR where \fIn\fR  occurrences are requested).
If the  \fIstring\fR  is found  within the given  search  criteria  the return
status is \fCTRUE\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  examples show the use of the  \fBsearch-buffer\fR  command. The
\fBsearch-buffer\fR is usually used with the
.Ht !force 4
directive  which traps any \fCFALSE\fR  return status and may be  subsequently
tested using the
.Ht !if 4
directive on the status
.Ht $status 5
variable. If the  \fB!force\fR  directive is omitted then the macro will abort
with a failure  status if the search  fails  (sometimes  this  behavior may be
required).
.PP
Case sensitive  search forward for the word  "\fCfoo\fR",  this is not a magic
regular expression.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!force search-buffer "eM" "foo"
!if $status
    ; found string
!else
    ; not found
!endif
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Case sensitive  search bacward for the word  "\fCfoo\fR",  this is not a magic
regular expression.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
search-buffer "beM" "foo"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Regular expression search forward for `\fC<\fR' or `\fC>\fR'.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
search-buffer "m" "[<>]"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Regular expression search catching the regular expression.  A[a-z]*. The macro
variable \fB@s1\fR returns the regular expression string that has been found.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!force search-buffer "em" "\\\\(A[a-z]*\\\\)"
!if $status
    ; found string
    1000 ml-write &spr "Found string '%s'" @s1
!else
    ; not found
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
.B Search-buffer
was added in  November  2004 to simplify  macro  writing and to speed up macro
execution. It replaces the macro commands
.Hr regex-forward 3
and
.Hr regex-backward 3 .
The command simplifies macro development by allowing the
.Ht exact 2m
and
.Ht magic 2m
modes to be  specified on the command  line, this ensures that the buffer mode
does  not need to be  saved,  set and then  restored  in order to  modify  the
behaviour of a search operation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2  ,
.Ht exact 2m ,
.Ht hunt-backward 2 ,
.Ht hunt-forward 2 ,
.Ht isearch-forward 2 ,
.Ht narrow-search-forward 3 ,
.Ht magic 2m ,
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
.Ht search-backward 2 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 .
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.FH
