.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd102.2,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*cr\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH query-replace-string 2
.XI query-replace-string - "\*(C0Search and replace a string - with query"
.SH NAME
query-replace-string \- Search and replace a string - with query
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBquery-replace-string\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B query-replace-string
operates like the
.Ht replace-string 2
command.  replacing  one string with  another.  However, it allows you to step
through each string and ask you if you wish to make the  replacement. The user
is prompted for a replacement response as follows:-
.IP \fB?\fR
Help - get a list of options.
.IP "\fBy\fR or \fBspace\fR"
Make the replacement and continue on to the next string.
.IP \fBn\fR
Do not make the replacement, and continue.
.IP "\fBa\fR or \fB!\fR"
Replace the rest of the strings without asking.
.IP \fBe\fR
Edit the replacement string.
.IP \fBl\fR
Last replacement, do next and stop.
.IP \fBu\fR
Undo last replacement.
.IP \fB^G\fR
Stop the command.
.PP
.Ht $result 5
is set to a list giving the number of  substitutions,  the final  replace mode
('a' for all, 'l' for last or 'q' for query) and the replace with string.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Refer to
.Ht search-forward 2
for a description of the magic mode search characters.
.PP
.na
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
.Ht $result 5 .
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
