.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd123.2,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH append-buffer 2
.XI append-buffer - "Write contents of buffer to end of named file"
.SH NAME
append-buffer \- Write contents of buffer to end of named file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B append-buffer
"\fIfile-name\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B append-buffer
is used to write the  contents of the current  buffer into an  \s-1EXISTING\s0
file. Use
.Ht save-buffer 2
if the buffer is to over-write the existing file already  associated  with the
buffer. Use
.Ht write-buffer 2
if the  buffer is to be written  out to a new file, or to replace an  existing
file.
.PP
.B append-buffer
writes the contents of the current  buffer to the named file  \fIfile-name\fR.
But unlike
.Ht write-buffer 2
the  action of the write does not change the  attributes  associated  with the
file (if it exists), it also does not effect the stats of the current buffer.
.PP
On writing the file, append-buffer ignores the
.Ht time 2m
and
.Ht backup 2m
mode  settings. The current  buffer will not be time stamped and a backup will
not be created for "\fIfile-name\fR". If the buffer contains a
.Ht narrow 2m
it will automatically  be removed  before  saving so that the whole  buffer is
saved and restored when saving is complete
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  is a bit based  flag, where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  validity checks  (default). These include a check that the given file
already  exist, if not  confirmation  of writing is  requested  from the user.
Without  this flag the  command  will always  succeed  wherever  possible.  If
"\fIfile-name\fR"  does not  exist  the  buffer  is  written  out in a similar
fashion to using the command
.Ht write-buffer 2 .
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Disables the expansion of any narrows (see
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 )
before appending the buffer.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Truncate the existing file before writing out the contents of the buffer. This
means that the file will  consist  solely of the contents of the buffer, but it
will still have the file attributes of the original file.
.PP
If \fIn\fR is not specified then the default argument of 1 is used.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example  appends the current  buffer onto the end of a file,
creating the file if it does not exists
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
append-buffer "things_to_do.txt"
.CE 
.Me $ehf-scheme
The following  example  truncates the users email file while  maintaining the
file attributes. This is taken from
.Ht vm 3
where it is used to remove the current mail from the system mail box.
.CS
find-buffer "*vm-empty-buffer"
-1 buffer-mode "ctrlz"
5 append-buffer %vm-mail-src
delete-buffer $buffer-bname
.CE
Note that the macro ensures that
.Ht ctrlz 2m
mode is removed. If it was enabled then the file written would not be empty. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 .
.ad
.FH
