.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jun 22 21:35:58 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd138.2,v 2.6 2009/08/29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell
.so me.tni
.TH add-spell-rule 2
.XI add-spell-rule - "Add a new spelling rule to the dictionary"
.SH NAME
add-spell-rule \- Add a new spelling rule to the dictionary
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B add-spell-rule
[\ "\fI\|rule-letter\fR\|"
"\fI\|base-ending\fR\|"
"\fI\|remove\|\fR"
"\fI\|derive-ending\|\fR"
"\fI\|sub-rules\|\fR"\ ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B add-spell-rule
adds a new  spelling  rule to the  spelling  checker.  The rules  effectively  define the prefix and suffix  character
replacements  of words, which is given a single character identifier, \fIrule-letter\fR, used in conjunction  with the
language dictionary. The letter conventions are defined by the
.B "Free Software Foundation"
GNU
.Hr ispell 1
and more recently
.Hr myspell 1
and
.Hr hunspell 1
package.
.PP
.B add-spell-rule
is  used  in  the  \*(mS  language spelling initialization  macro files named  lsr\fI<language>\fR.emf,  e.g.  \fClsrenus.erf\fR,
\fClsrelgr.erf\fR supplied in the \*(mS spelling or macros directory.
.PP
The command uses the numeric argument \fIn\fR to control the addition of a rule to the speller, as follows:-
.TP
\fC0\fR \fBadd-spell-rule\fR
.\"
Removes all existing rules and re-initializes.  This is, by convention,  explicitly called before  instantiating a new
set of rules.
.TP
\fC\-1\fR \fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\|\fIrule-letter\fR\|" "\|\fIbase-ending\|\fR" "\fIremove\fR" "\fIderive-ending\fR" "\fIsub-rules\fR"
.\"
.PD 0
.TP
\fC\-2\fR \fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\|\fIrule-letter\fR\|" "\|\fIbase-ending\|\fR" "\fIremove\fR" "\fIderive-ending\fR" "\fIsub-rules\fR"
.\"
Adds a prefix rule, an argument of \-1 indicates  that this prefix rule cannot be used with a suffix rule. An argument
of \-2  indicates  it can be used in  conjunction  with any base word suffix rule which allows used with a prefix rule
(e.g. argument of 2).
.PD 1
.IP
"\fIrule-letter\fR"  is any  character  in the range 0x21 to 0xff, all rules of the given letter must be a prefix rule
and of the same type (i.e. same argument  \fBn\fR). The start of a base word must match the given  "\fIbase-ending\fR"
regular  expression string for the rule to be applied; the "\fIremove\fR" must be a fixed string if not empty and must
explicitly match the start of the  \fIbase-ending\fR  and is removed from the start of the base word before the prefix
"\fIderiv-ending\fR" is prefixed to the word. Example, for the American language;-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
-2 add-spell-rule "R" "[^e]" "" "re" ""   ; As in label > relabel
-2 add-spell-rule "R" "e" "" "re-" ""     ; As in enter > re-enter
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
.RS
The prefix rule of type  '\fCR\fR' can be applied to any base word which has rule  '\fCR\fR'  enabled, and it prefixes
"\fCre\fR" or "\fCre-\fR" to the word. The "\fIsub-rules\fR" argument can be used to list additional rules that can be
applied to the base word if this rule has been  applied, as \*(mS only  supports a single  prefix  these rules must be
suffixes and no other base word suffix can also be applied. 
.RE
.TP
\fC1\fR \fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\|\fIrule-letter\fR\|" "\|\fIbase-ending\fR\|" "\|\fIremove\fR\|" "\fI\|deriv-ending\fR\|" "\fIsub-rules\fR"
.PD 0
.TP
\fC2\fR \fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\|\fIrule-letter\fR\|" "\fI\|base-ending\fR\|" "\fI\|remove\fR\|" "\fI\|deriv-ending\fR\|" "\fIsub-rules\fR"
.\"
Add suffix rules. An argument of 1 indicates that this suffix rule cannot be used with a prefix rule. An argument of 2
indicates it can be used in conjunction  with any prefix rule which can also be used with a suffix rule (i.e. argument
of \-2).
.PD 1
.IP
"\fIrule-letter\fR"  is any  character  in the range 0x21 to 0xff, all rules of the given letter must be a suffix rule
and of the same type (i.e. same  argument  \fBn\fR).  The end of a base word must match the given  "\fIbase-ending\fR"
regular  expression  string for the rule to be applied, the "\fIremove\fR"  string must be a fixed string if not empty
and the must exactly match the end of the "\fIbase-ending\fR". The "\fIremove\fR" string is removed first from the end
of the base word before the  "\fIderiv-ending\fR",  which must also be a fixed  string, is appended.  Example, for the
American language;-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
2 add-spell-rule "N" "e" "e" "ion" ""     ; As in create > creation
2 add-spell-rule "N" "y" "y" "ication" "" ; As in multiply > multiplication
2 add-spell-rule "N" "[^ey]" "" "en" ""   ; As in fall > fallen
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
.RS
The suffix rule of type  '\fCN\fR' can then be applied to any base word which has rule '\fCN\fR'  enabled, and it can be used
with prefixes, e.g. with rule \fCR\fR above to derive  "\fIrecreation\fR" from "\fIcreate\fR". A rule which cannot be used
with prefixes, i.e.:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
1 add-spell-rule "V" "e" "e" "ive" ""    ; As in create > creative
1 add-spell-rule "V" "[^e]" "" "ive" ""  ; As in prevent > collectpreventive
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
While  some  prefix  words are  legal,  such as  "\fIrecreative\fR"  but some are not, such as  "\fIprevent\fR"  where
"\fIpreventive\fR"  is correct but  "\fIrepreventive\fR"  is not. The  "\fIsub-rules\fR"  argument can be used to list
additional  rules that can be applied to the base word if this rule has been  applied,  \*(mS  supports  the  addition
up-to two  suffixes  and a single  prefix.  Sub-rules  can be used to simply  rules and  reduces  the  number of rules
required, for examle:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
2 add-spell-rule "G" "" "" "ing" "S"  ; As in list > listing
2 add-spell-rule "S" "" "" "s" ""     ; As in pen > pens
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Would  automatically  derive a "\fCings\fR"  suffix whenever a base word allows a "\fCing\fR" suffix. This can also be
used to reduce the number of erroneous derived words, for example:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
-2 add-spell-rule "U" "" "" "un" ""     ; As in bend > unbend
2 add-spell-rule "A" "" "" "able" "US"  ; As in loan > loanable
2 add-spell-rule "S" "" "" "s" ""       ; As in pen > pens
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
These  rules  allow a base  word of  "\fIdrink\fR"  with  flags  "AS" to  derive  the  correct  words  "\fIdrinks\fR",
"\fIdrinkable\fR",  "\fIdrinkables\fR"  "\fIundrinkable\fR"  and  "\fIundrinkables\fR"  but  not the  erroneous  words
"\fIundrink\fR" or "\fIundrinks\fR". 
.RE
.SS "SPECIAL RULES"
Following  are  special  forms of  add-spell-rule  used for  tuning  the spell
support, note that an argument can not be given:-
.PP
\fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\fI-\fR" "<\fIy\fR|\fIn\fR>"
.IP
Enables and disables the acceptance of hyphens joining correct words. By default the phrase  "\fCout-of-date\fR" would
be accepted in American  even though the phrase does not exist in the American  dictionary.  This is because the three
words making up the phrase are correct and by default  hyphens  joining words are allowed. Some Latin language such as
Spanish do not use this concept so this feature can be disable.
.PP
\fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\fI#\fR" "\fIscore\fR"
.IP
Sets the maximum  allowed error score when creating a spelling  guess list. When comparing a dictionary  word with the
user supplied word,  \fBspell\fR  checks for differences,  each difference or error is scored in the range of 20 to 27
points, once the maximum  allowed  score has been  exceeded the word is ignored. The default  guess error score is 60,
allowing for 2 errors.
.PP
\fBadd-spell-rule\fR "\fI*\fR" "\fIregex\fR"
.IP
Adds a correct word in the form of a
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2
if a word being spell checked is completely  matched by the \fBregex\fR the word is deemed to be correct. For example,
the following rule can be used to make the spell-checker allow all hex numbers:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
add-spell-rule "*" "0[xX][[:xdigit:]]+"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
This will  completely  match the words  "\fC0x0\fR",  "\fC0xff\fR" etc but not  "\fC0x00z\fR" as the whole word is not
matched, only the first 4 letters.
.SH NOTES
The \fBispell-convert\fR macro in \fBspellutl.emf\fR can be used to convert
.Hr ispell 1 ,
.Hr myspell 1
and
.Hr hunspell 1
compliant affix (.aff) and dictionary (.dic) files to \*(mS. The format of the dictionary is a list of base words with
each word having a list of rules which can be applied to that word. Therefore the list of words and the rules used for
them are linked e.g.
.CS
aback
abaft
abandon/DGRS
abandonment/S
abase/DGRS
abasement/S
abash/DGS
abashed/U
abate/DGRS
achieve/GS
achieve/RSfDG
.CE
where the "\fC/...\fR" is the valid list of rules for that word.
.PP
\*(mS uses a  proprietary  binary  format for  dictionaries  which allows for rapid  initialisation,  this format only
supports  a  single  copy of a base  word so a  single  word  requires  multiple  entries  to  define  different  rule
combinations,  such as for  \fIachieve\fR  above, it separates the rule groups with the 0x01 character  which is not a
valid rule.
.PP
\*(mS  does  not  support  the  full  set  of  \fBhunspell\fR   features,   some  are  unlikely  to  be  required,  such  as
\fICOMPLEXPREFIXES\fR  as \*(mS does not support right-to-left languages such as Arabic. Other features such as support
for compounds may be added at some point in the future, see \fBspell.c\fR for the current list of unsupported futures.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht spell 2
.Ht spell-buffer 3 ,
.Ht spell-word 3 ,
.Hr ispell 1 .
.ad
.FH
