.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd098.2,v 2.8 2022/02/13 08:59:51 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e@\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH pipe-shell-command 2
.XI pipe-shell-command - "\*(C0Execute a single operating system command" command|shell
.XI $ME_PIPE_STDERR 5 "Command line diversion to stderr symbol" variable|shell
.SH NAME
pipe-shell-command \- Execute a single operating system command
.br
$ME_PIPE_STDERR \- Command line diversion to stderr symbol
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|pipe-shell-command"
.I n
.B pipe-shell-command
"\fIcommand\fR"
[ "\fIbuffer-name\fR" | "\fIvariable-name\fR" ] \*(C0
.sp 1
.Me "|$ME_PIPE_STDERR"
.I "[MS-DOS and Win32s Only]"
.br
.Me "|$ME_PIPE_STDERR"
.B $ME_PIPE_STDERR 
"\fIstring\fR"; Default is undefined.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pipe-shell-command
executes one operating  system command  \fIcommand\fR  and pipes the resulting
output into a buffer with the name of \fB*command*\fR. The
.Ht $result 5
variable is set the return or exit-code of the shell command and can be used to test the result.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  change  the  default   behavior  of
pipe-shell-command described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables the use of the default buffer name \fB*command*\fR  (default). If this
bit is clear the user must supply a buffer name. This enables  another command
to be started without effecting any other command buffer.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Hides the output  buffer,  default  action pops up a window and  displays  the
output buffer in the new window.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Disable the use of the  command-line  processor  to launch the program  (win32
versions  only). By default the  "\fBcommand\fR"  is launched by executing the
command:
.CS
    %COMSPEC% /c command 
.CE 0
.IP
Where  \fC%COMSPEC%\fR  is  typically  command.com.  If this  bit is set,  the
"\fBcommand\fR" is launched directly.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
Detach the launched  process from \*(mS (win32  versions only). By default the
command is launched as a child  process of \*(mS with a new console. With this
bit set the process is completely detached from \*(mS instead.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
Disable  the  command  name  mangling  (win32  versions  only). By default any
\&'\fC/\fR' characters found in the command name (the first argument only) are
converted to '\fC\\\fR' characters to make it Windows compliant.
.IP \fB0x20\fR
Displays the new process window (win32  versions  only), by default the window
is hidden.
.IP \fB0x40\fR
Raw mode, disable text annotation at the start of the pipe output.
.IP \fB0x80\fR
Not used by this command.
.IP \fB0x100\fR
When set the command-line to be run is the first line of buffer  \fIstring\fR,
this feature can be used to overcome the default 1024  character  command-line
limit. When a multiple-line  command-line is required, a negative argument can
be given to
.Ht insert-string 2 .
.IP \fB0x200\fR
Not used by this command.
.IP \fB0x400\fR
When this bit is set the command sets the value of the given  \fIvariable-name\fR  to the output of the shell  command
rather than insert it into a buffer. Note that the output length is limited to the maximum variable length,  typically
1024 or 2048 bytes, and the output is copied verbatim so a '\fC\\0\fR' in the output will terminate the value.
.SH NOTES
On \s-1MS-DOS\s0 and \fIWin32s\fR the standard shell
.Hr command.com 1
does not support the piping of \fIstderr\fR to a file. Other shells, such as
.Hr 4Dos.com 1 ,
do, using the command-line  argument  "\fC>&\fR". If the environment  variable
"\fCME_PIPE_STDERR\fR"  is defined (the value is not used) then \*(mS  assumes
that the current shell supports piping of stderr.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ,
.Ht shell-command 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
