.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd121.2,v 2.8 2009/08/29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|region
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*(sP\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH set-mark 2
.XI set-mark - "\*(C0Set starting point of region"
.SH NAME
set-mark \- Set starting point of region
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBset-mark\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B set-mark
is used to  delimit  the  beginning  of a marked  region.  Many  commands  are
effective  for a region of text. A region is defined as the text  between  the
mark and the  current  cursor  position.  To  delete a  section  of text,  for
example,  one moves the  cursor to the  beginning  of the text to be  deleted,
issues the \fBset-mark\fR  command by typing  \fB\*e\*(sP\fR, moves the cursor
to the end of the text to be deleted, and then deletes it by using the
.Ht kill-region 2
(\fB\*cw\fR)  command. Only one mark can be set in one window or one buffer at
a time, and \*(mE will try to remember a mark set in an off screen buffer when
it is called back on screen.
.PP
A region is a block of text to be acted  upon by some  \*(mS  commands.  It is
demarcated by the  \fBPOINT\fR on one end and the \fBMARK\fR at the other. The
point is the primary location  identifier where most of the action takes place
and is always  between two  characters.  The point is  indicated by the cursor
position in that it is just left of the cursor. The point is also  significant
in that it  defines  one end of the  region.  The mark, on the other  hand, is
invisible,  and is used to  demarcate  the other end of the  region and is set
through \fBset-mark\fR.
.PP
The current buffer mark line and column position may be obtained from within a
macro using the variables
.Ht $window-mark-line 5 
and 
.Ht $window-mark-col 5 . 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-region 2 ,
.Ht exchange-point-and-mark 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 .
.Ht reyank 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 ,
.Ht $window-mark-col 5 , 
.Ht $window-mark-line 5 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
