.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd020.2,v 2.6 2022/02/05 14:45:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window|comparison
.so me.tni
.TH compare-windows 2
.XI compare-windows - "Compare buffer windows, ignore whitespace"
.XI compare-windows-exact 3 "Compare buffer windows, with whitespace" 
.SH NAME
.Me "|compare-windows"
compare-windows \- Compare buffer windows, ignore whitespace.
.br
.Me "|compare-windows-exact"
compare-windows-exact \- Compare buffer windows, with whitespace.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B compare-windows
.br
.B compare-windows-exact
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B compare-windows
compares the textural content of \s-1ALL\s0 the current windows from their current cursor position. These commands are
generally  used to locate the next  difference  in the windows  displayed.  Returns  \fCTRUE\fR  if the buffers of the
windows do not differ from the current position to the end of the file (inclusive), else returns  \fCFALSE\fR  setting
the cursor of each buffer to the first point of difference.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR can be used to change the  default  behavior  of  compare-windows,  \fIn\fP is a bit based flag
where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When enabled the compare operation ignores white-space differences, when clear an exact white-space match is performed.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When enabled the compare operation is case-insensitive, when clear an exact letter match is performed.
.PP
When omitted a case-sensitive compare which ignores white-space differences is performed.
.PP 
.B compare-windows-exact
is a macro short cut for \fI0 compare-windows\fR, forcing an exact white-space & letter-case comparison.
.SH NOTES
A window can be excluded from \fBcompare-windows\fR by setting bit \fC0x08\fR of its
.Ht $window-flags 5
variable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht diff 3 ,
.Ht diff-changes 3 ,
.Ht gdiff 3 ,
.Ht $window-flags 5 .
.ad
.FH
