.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd065.2,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:31 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|help
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e?\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cH\*cc\fR)\ \&
.ds C2 "(\fB\*(cH\*cv\fR)\ \&
.ds C3 "(\fB\*(cH\*ci\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH help 2
.XI help \- "\*(C0Help; high level introduction to help"
.XI help-command \- "\*(C1Help; command information"
.XI help-variable \- "\*(C2Help; variable information"
.XI help-item \- "\*(C3Help; item information"
.SH NAME
.Me "|help"
help \- Help; high level introduction to help
.br
.Me "|help-command"
help-command \- Help; command information
.br
.Me "|help-variable"
help-variable \- Help; variable information
.br
.Me "|help-item"
help-item \- Help; item information
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBhelp\fR \*(C0
.br
.B help-command
"\fIcommand\fR" \*(C1
.br
.B help-variable
"\fIvariable\fR" \*(C2
.br
\fBhelp-item\fR
"\fIitem\fR" \*(C3
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The help commands  provide a quick on-line help facility  within \*(mE without
invoking a third party documentation system (e.g. a browser such as
.Hr Netscape 1
or
.Hr winhelp 1 ).
.PP
The on-line  help is assisted by a set of macros which enable key words within
the help buffers to be located by either tagging  (\fC\*et\fR) or by selection
with the left mouse button. The tag mechanism supports command completion.
.PP
.B help
provides  general help on the  philosophy  and  functionality  of \*(mE, if an
argument \fIn\fR of 0 is given to the command it changes the current buffer to
the internal help buffer, typically named "\fC*on-line help*\fR". This is a
.Hl hidden hide 2m
system buffer used to store all the on-line help and can be used for a variety
of things. Note that access to this buffer must be via the \fBhelp\fR command,
not  \fBfind-buffer\fR  and the help  command will also ensure the system help
file is loaded first.
.PP
.B help-command
describes the purpose of the given \fIcommand\fR.
.PP
.B help-variable
Describes   the   purpose   of   the   given   \fIvariable\fR,    similar   to
\fBhelp-command\fR, only for variables.
.PP
.B help-item
Describes  the  purpose  of any given  item,  where  item  could be a command,
variable or any aspect of \*(mE.
.SH FILES
The help files are ASCII text files located in the \*(mE  home directory.
The files are defined as follows:-
.sp
.na
.nf
\fCme.ehf\fR \- Help text file.
\fChkehf.emf\fR \- Help macros.
.ad
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht osd-help 3 ,
.Ht command-apropos 2 ,
.Ht describe-bindings 2 ,
.Ht describe-key 2 ,
.Ht list-commands 2 ,
.Ht list-variables 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.rm C2
.rm C3
.FH
