.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd035.2,v 2.10 2006-08-20 11:06:24 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|delete
.ds C0 "(\fB\*ed\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*e\*(bS\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH forward-kill-word 2
.XI forward-kill-word - "\*(C0Delete the next word at the cursor position"
.XI backward-kill-word - "\*(C1Delete the previous word at the cursor position"
.SH NAME
.nf
.Me "|forward-kill-word"
forward-kill-word \- Delete next word at the cursor position
.Me "|backward-kill-word"
backward-kill-word \- Delete previous word at the cursor position
.fi
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBforward-kill-word\fR \*(C0
.br
.I n
\fBbackward-kill-word\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B forward-kill-word
deletes the next \fIn\fR words  starting at the current  cursor  position, the
deleted text is added to the kill buffer. See
.Ht forward-word  2
for a description of word  boundaries. If no argument \fIn\fR is given and the
current  character is a non-word  character then only the characters  from the
current  position to the start of the next word are  removed. If the  argument
\fIn\fR is \fC0\fR the command has no effect. If a negative argument is specified,
\fIn\fR words are deleted backwards (i.e. this is the same as 
.BR "-n backward-kill-word" ).
.PP
.B backward-kill-word
deletes the  previous  \fIn\fR  words  before the cursor, the deleted  text is
added to the kill  buffer. The  numeric  argument has the same  effect as with
\fBforward-kill-word\fR.
.SH NOTES
.B backward-kill-word
is also bound to \fB\*e\*(bS\fR.
.PP
The negative argument is typically used by macro scripts where the kill buffer
is more precisely controlled.
.SH HISTORY
The  interpretation of the numeric argument was changed in the 2005 release to
kill \fIn\fR words in a forwards or backwards  direction. In previous releases
then the negative argument controlled the kill buffer behavior. If kill buffer
control is required then 
.Ht kill-region 2
should be used instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht backward-delete-char 2 ,
.Ht forward-delete-char 2 ,
.Ht forward-word 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
