.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd022.2,v 2.7 2009-08-29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|region
.ds C0 "(\fB\*ew\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH copy-region 2
.XI copy-region - "\*(C0Copy a region of the buffer"
.SH NAME
copy-region \- Copy a region of the buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBcopy-region\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copy-region
copies all the characters between the cursor and the mark set with the
.Ht set-mark 2
command into the kill buffer (so they can later be
.Hl yanked yank 2 
elsewhere).
.PP
If the last command also entered text into the kill buffer (or the
.Ht @cl 4
variable  is set to one of  these  commands)  the  \fBcopy-region\fR  text  is
appended to the last kill.
.PP
The numeric argument \fIn\fR determines how the copy operates when a 
narrow region, defined by 
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 ,
is encountered. The default operation, when the number argument is \fC1\fR, is
to copy all of the text contained within the narrowed region. When the numeric
argument is \fC0\fR then narrowed  region is NOT copied and the text is copied
as it appears in the buffer. 
.SH USAGE
To copy text from one place to another, using the  \fBcopy-region\fR  command,
the following operations are performed:
.BS
Move to the beginning of the text you want to copy.
.BU
Set the mark there with the
.Hl set-mark set-mark 2 
(\fBesc-space\fR) command.
.BU
Move the point (cursor) to the end of the text.
.BU
Use  \fBcopy-region\fR  to copy the region you just  defined. The text will be
saved in the kill buffer. (If you accidentally delete the text use
.Hl yank yank 2 
(\fB\*cy\fR) immediately or
.Hl undo undo 2 
(\fB\*(cXu\fR) to restore the text).
.BU 
Move the point to the place you want the text to appear.
.BU
Use the
.Hl yank yank 2 
(\fB\*cy\fR)  command  to copy the text  from the kill  buffer to the  current
point.
.BE
Repeat the last two steps to insert further copies of the same text.
.SH NOTES
Windowing  systems such as X-Windows  and Microsoft  Windows  utilize a global
windowing kill buffer allowing data to be moved between windowing applications
(\fIcut   buffer\fR   and   \fIclipboard\fR,   respectively).   Within   these
environments  \*(mE  automatically  interacts with the windowing  systems kill
buffer, the last \*(mE \fBcopy-region\fR  entry is immediately available for a
paste operation into another windowing application.
.PP
The numeric argument \fIn\fR was introduced in the '04 release.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht exchange-point-and-mark 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
