.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd002.2,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell
.so me.tni
.TH add-dictionary 2
.XI add-dictionary - "Declare existence of a spelling dictionary"
.SH NAME
add-dictionary \- Declare existence of a spelling dictionary
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B add-dictionary
"\fIfile\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B add-dictionary
adds  the  given  dictionary  (specified  by  the  given  \fIfile\fR)  to  the
dictionary  list. Note that the \fIfile\fR may omit the \fB.edf\fR  extension,
this is automatically added.
.PP
The command accepts a numeric argument  '\fIn\fR' which determines the actions
to be  undertaken.  When \fIn\fR is omitted then the  dictionary is marked for
loading  (on demand) - this is the  standard  invocation  used in the start up
files.
.PP
If an  argument  of \fB0\fR is given the  dictionary  is created but it is not
marked for loading, this can be used to create an empty dictionary.
.PP
If an argument of \fB\-1\fR is given the contents of the dictionary are dumped
into the current buffer, used for dictionary maintenance. The two main uses of
this command are discussed below.
.SS "Dictionary Loading"
A call to
.B add-dictionary
with no numeric argument does not perform an immediate load of the dictionary,
instead the dictionary is only loaded on demand, i.e. when a call to
.Ht spell 2 
(usually via
.Ht spell-word 3
or
.Ht spell-buffer 3 )
is made, this  ensures  that the start up time for \*(mS does not  become  too
long. When the dictionary is loaded it is checked for  efficiency, if found to
be  inefficient  it is  automatically  optimized  and  flagged as  changed. On
exiting \*(mS, the user is prompted to save any dictionary that has be altered
or optimized.
.PP
The spelling search order is made from the last dictionary added to the first,
as soon as a word is found in a dictionary  the search is halted. This implies
that if a word has been defined  incorrectly in one dictionary, but correct in
another, the order in which the dictionaries are added determines the result.
.PP
The number of dictionaries  allowed is unlimited but note that any words added
are always added to the \s-1LAST\s0  dictionary. The size of the dictionary is
restricted  to about 16Mb, the size is  \s-1NOT\s0  tested when words are added
and if this  size is  exceeded  the  results  are  undefined.  However,  it is
unlikely  that this limit will be reached, the largest  dictionary  created to
date is 0.8Mb.
.PP
A new main dictionary may be created as follows:-
.IP \fB1)\fR
Find a file containing an
.Hr ispell 1
compatible list of words.
.IP \fB2)\fR
.Ht execute-file 2
spellutl.emf to define macro
.Ht spell-add-word 3 .
.IP \fB3)\fR
Start  up  \*(mE  and  execute  the  command  \fBadd-dictionary\fR  giving  an
appropriate new dictionary name.
.IP \fB4)\fR
Load up the file containing the words and execute the command
.Ht spell-add-word 3
with a very large argument so all the words are added.
.IP \fB5)\fR
Save the dictionary by either executing the command
.Ht save-dictionary 2
or exiting.
.SS "Dictionary Dump"
A call to
.B add-dictionary
with a numeric  argument  \fIn\fR  of \-1  causes  the  contents  of the given
dictionary to be dumped into the current buffer (make sure you are in an empty
buffer or \fB*scratch*\fR) where:
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fCxxxx\fR \- Good word \fCxxxx\fR with no spell rules allowed
\fCxxxx/abc\fR \- Good word \fCxxxx\fR with spell rules \fCabc\fR allowed
\fCxxxx>yyyy\fR \- Erroneous word with an auto-replace to \fCyyyy\fR
.fi
.RE
.PP
The dump of the dictionary may be edited,  allowing  erroneous  entries to be
removed. The macro file \fCspellutl.emf\fR contains macros
.Ht edit-dictionary 3
and
.Ht restore-dictionary 3
which enable the user to edit a dictionary.
.SH NOTES
\*(mE is supplied with a dictionaries  for American and British English, it is
strongly  suggested that these  dictionaries are \fBNOT\fR modified in anyway.
Ensure  that the  dictionary  is  protected  by loading the base  dictionaries
first, followed by a personal dictionary. New words added during spelling will
then be added to the personal dictionary rather than the main dictionary.
.SH EXAMPLE
The \*(mE start-up file \fBme.emf\fR executes \fBlanguage.emf\fR which in turn
executes the user language setup file, for example  \fBamerican.emf\fR,  which
adds the main language  dictionaries and rules.  \fBlanguage.emf\fR  then adds
the user's dictionary, this process can be simplified to:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; add the main American dictionary
add-dictionary "lsdmenus"

; reset the spell rules
0 add-spell-rule
; Now add the American spell rules
-2 add-spell-rule "A" "" "" "re" ; As in enter > reenter
-2 add-spell-rule "I" "" "" "in" ; As in disposed > indisposed
    .
    .
; Now add the user dictionary
add-dictionary $MENAME
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-spell-rule 2 ,
.Ht save-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht spell-add-word 3 ,
.Ht edit-dictionary 3 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 .
.ad
.FH
