.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd018.2,v 2.7 2009-08-29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH change-frame-depth 2
.XI change-frame-depth - "Change the number of lines on the current frame"
.XI change-frame-width - "Change the number of columns on the current frame"
.XI change-screen-depth - "Change the number of lines on the screen"
.XI change-screen-width - "Change the number of columns on the screen"
.SH NAME
.nf
.Me "|change-frame-depth"
change-frame-depth \- Change the number of lines on the current frame
.Me "|change-frame-width"
change-frame-width \- Change the number of columns on the current frame
.fi
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBchange-frame-depth\fR [ "\fIdepth\fR" ]
.br
\fIn\fR \fBchange-frame-width\fR [ "\fIwidth\fR" ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B change-frame-depth
changes  the depth of the current  frame, if the numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is
given  then the frame  depth is  changed  by \fIn\fR  lines. If \fIn\fR is not
specified  the user is prompted  for the new  \fIdepth\fR  and the frame depth
will be  changed  to this  value. It is  assumed  that the screen can draw the
requested \fIn\fR lines and \*(mS draws the lines at the users peril.
.PP
A change in depth causes all of the internal  windows  currently  displayed in
the frame to be re-sized, the vertical position of the windows are modified to
match the new screen dimension, the horizontal position of the windows remains
unaltered. If the window is down-sized and the currently displayed windows are
not able to fit into the new screen  space then all  windows are deleted  with
the exception of the current window.
.PP
.B change-frame-width
changes  the width of the current  frame, if the numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is
given then the frame width is changed by \fIn\fR characters. If \fIn\fR is not
specified  the user is prompted  for the new  \fIwidth\fR  and the frame width
will be  changed  to this  value. It is  assumed  that the screen can draw the
requested \fIn\fR columns and \*(mS draws them at the users peril. The windows
are reorganized as  \fBchange-frame-depth\fR  working horizontally rather than
vertically.
.SH NOTES
Within windowing environments such as
.B X-Windows
and
.B "Microsoft Windows"
these  commands  cause the canvas  window to be  re-sized to  accommodate  the
change in screen size.
.PP
In \s-1MS-DOS\s0 and \s-1UNIX Termcap\s0 environments the physical size of the
screen is determined by the characteristics of the display adapter.
.B change-frame-depth
may be used to correct  anomalies  (usually on  portables) in the  displayable
screen area and the graphics  mode. e.g. In DOS the graphics  mode utilizes 50
lines, and only 47 lines are viewable. In this case change the screen depth to
47 and \*(mS will not utilize the remaining lines which are not viewable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $frame-depth 5 ,
.Ht $frame-width 5 .
.ad
.FH

