.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd005.2,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|modes
.ds C0 "(\fB\*em\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH global-mode 2
.XI global-mode - "\*(C0Change a global buffer mode"
.XI add-global-mode 3 "Set a global buffer mode"
.XI delete-global-mode 3 "Remove a global buffer mode"
.SH NAME
.br
.Me "|global-mode"
global-mode \- Change a global buffer mode
.br
.Me "|add-global-mode"
add-global-mode \- Set a global buffer mode
.br
.Me "|delete-global-mode"
delete-global-mode \- Remove a global buffer mode
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B global-mode
"\fImode\fR" \*(C0
.br
.B add-global-mode
"\fImode\fR"
.br
.B delete-global-mode
"\fImode\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B global-mode
changes the state of one of the hereditary  global modes. A buffer's modes are
initialized  to the  global  modes when first  created.  This  command is very
useful  in  changing  some of the  default  behavior  such as case  sensitive
searching (see the example below). See
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes -
for a full list and description of modes. Also see
.Ht buffer-mode 2
for a full description of the use of the argument \fIn\fR.
.PP
The
.Ht about 2
command gives a list of the current global and buffer modes.
.PP
\fBadd-global-mode\fR  and  \fBdelete-global-mode\fR  are  macros  defined  in
meme3_8.emf  which use  global-mode  to add or remove a global  mode. They are
defined for backward  compatibility  with MicroEMACS v3.8 and for ease of use;
they are simple macros, add-global-mode is defined as follows:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro add-global-mode
    ; Has the require mode been given as an argument, if so add it
    !force 1 global-mode @1
    !if &not $status
        ; No - use 1 global-mode to add a mode
        !nma 1 global-mode
    !endif
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example globally disables
.Ht exact 2m
and 
.Ht magic 2m
modes, if these lines are copied to the user setup file then are searches will
be simple and case insensitive by default:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
-1 global-mode "exact"
-1 global-mode "magic"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
Globally adding
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht crypt 2m
and
.Ht rbin 2m
modes is  strongly  discouraged  as any file  loaded  would be assigned  these
modes. Instead use the numeric argument of command
.Ht find-file 2 
or commands
.Ht find-bfile 3
and
.Ht find-cfile 3 .
.PP
.Ht auto 2m ,
.Ht autosv 2m ,
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht exact 2m ,
.Ht magic 2m ,
.Ht quiet 2m ,
.Ht tab 2m
and
.Ht undo 2m
modes are present on all platforms by default. On Windows and DOS platforms
.Ht crlf 2m
is also present and on DOS
.Ht ctrlz 2m
is also present.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht find-bfile 3 ,
.Ht find-cfile 3 ,
.Ht about 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
