.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd027.2,v 2.8 2023/01/09 19:15:46 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH change-font 2
.XI change-font - "Change the screen font"
.SH NAME
change-font \- Change the screen font
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I "[X-Windows]"
.br
.I n
.B change-font
[ "\fIfontName\fR" ]
.sp
.I "[IBM-PC / MS-DOS]"
.br
.B change-font
"\fImode-no\fR" "\fIspec\fR"
.sp
.I "[Microsoft Windows]"
.br
.I n
.B change-font
[ \fIcharSet\fR ]
.br
.I n
.B change-font
[ \fIcharSet\fR "\fIfontName\fR" \fIweight\fR \fIwidth\fR \fIheight\fR ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B change-font
is a platform  specific command which allows the displayable font to be queried and modified. The selection of font is
determined by the monitor resolution and the capabilities of the graphics adapter.
.PP
This command is available on all systems except termcap. While  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  version does not support the concept of
different fonts, it does (or at least the graphics card does) support the concept of changing screen resolution, which
has the effect of changing the font. Each platform  takes  different  arguments and are considered  independently,  as
follows:
.SS "X-Windows"
The X-Windows \s-1UNIX\s0  environments accept a single argument which is a fully qualified font name. Simply give the
font X name and the font will change if it is available.  The window size changes to attempt to retain the same number
of rows and  columns so ensure  that when  changing  to a larger font then there is enough room (or a way) to resize a
window which is larger than the actual screen.
.PP
The X font string  describes the  attributes of the font in terms of it's size
name etc. as follows:-
.sp
.ps 8
.vs 10
.nf
\-\fIfoundry\fR\-\fIfamily\fR\-\fIweight\fR\-\fIslant\fR\-\fIwidth\fR\-\-\fIpixels\fR\-\fIpoint\fR\-\fIhres\fR\-\fIvres\fR\-\fIspace\fR\-\fIav\fR\-\fIset\fR
.sp
.fi
.vs 12
.ps 10
Where
.IP \fIfoundry\fR
The type of foundry that digitized and supplied the font.
.IP \fIfamily\fR
Font Family.
.IP \fIweight\fR
Modifies the appearance of the font, the \fIweight\fR is usually  \fBmedium\fR
or \fBbold\fR.
.IP \fIslant\fR
Determines  the  orientation of the font.  \fIslant\fR is usually  \fBr\fRoman
(upright), \fBi\fRtalic or \fBo\fRblique.
.IP \fIwidth\fR
Describes  the  proportionate  width  of  the  font.  Typical  widths  include
\fBnormal\fR, \fBcondensed\fR, \fBnarrow\fR, \fBdouble\fR.
.IP \fIpixels\fR
Pixel size of the font
.IP \fIpoint\fR
The resolution of the font in tenths of a \fBdpi\fR (i.e. dpi*10)
.IP \fIhres\fR
Horizontal resolution of the font in dpi.
.IP \fIvres\fR
Vertical resolution of the font in dpi.
.IP \fIspace\fR
The spacing of the font. Typical spacing values include \fBm\fRonospaced (i.e.
fixed width), \fBp\fRroportional and \fBc\fRharacter cell.
.IP \fIav\fR
Mean width of all font characters, measured in tenths of a pixel.
.IP \fIset\fR
Character set - this is made up of two fields, the character set standard and the set identifier, e.g. \fBiso8859-1\fR.
.LP
The default  font used by \*(mS is the first font that is iso8859, of family  fixed (then clean), of point size 14, 13 or 12
of medium or regular weight, i.e. the following are tried in order:
.CS
\-*-fixed-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*
\-*-fixed-regular-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*
\-*-fixed-medium-r-*-*-*-130-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*
\&...
\-*-fixed-regular-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*
\-*-clean-medium-r-*-*-*-140-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*
\&...
\-*-clean-regular-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*
\-*-fixed-regular-r-*-*-*-120-*-*-*-*-*-*
\&...
.CE
Try running
.Hr xfontsel 1
in an xterm if struggling to find a suitable font. The font may also be changed in your \fB.Xdefaults\fR file by inserting the
line:-
.CS
MicroEmacs.font "-misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--13-*-*-*-c-80-iso8859-1"
.CE
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the  command,  where the bits are defined as
follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Prompt for the new font name, if left as an empty  string the default  font, as described  above, is selected. If this
bit is not set then the current font is used.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the new font is not applied, this bit is useful when information about a font is wanted.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the command does not alter the value of variable
.Ht $result 5 .
When not set \fB$result\fR is set to the following information about the font in a \*(mS list format:
.CS
"||||<pixel-width>|<pixel-height>|||<fontName>|"
.CE 0
.SS "IBM-PC / MS-DOS"
\s-1MS-DOS\s0 may only change the screen resolution, the standard screen resolution is either 80 columns by 25 rows or
80 by 50. A more advanced  graphics card can typically  support up to 132 by 60, MicroEmacs in theory has no limit but
it has only been tested up to this size.
.PP
The main problem with \s-1MS-DOS\s0  machines is that there is no standard and this is no exception. The graphics mode
needed to get a 132 by 60 screen (if  available)  varies  from one card to the next so \*(mS needs to know the graphic
mode number your card uses to get your required screen resolution.
.PP
\*(mS can also attempt a little bit of magic to double the number of rows on the screen for a given screen resolution.
This is how 50 lines are obtained from the standard 25 line mode 3. If the value of "\fIspec\fR" is non-zero then this
is attempted, to the authors knowledge this will either work or not depending on the direction of the wind and no harm
will befall the users equipment. However the author also quickly disclaims anything and everything, the user uses this
at their own peril, like everything else.
.PP
\*(mS attempts to determine the new screen width and depth itself, in case this fails the commands
.Ht change-frame-width 2
and
.Ht change-frame-depth 2
may be used to correct the problem.
.PP
Following are the standard \s-1MS-DOS\s0 text modes:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
change-font "2" "0"       ; Simple monochrome or EGA monitor, 80 by 25.
change-font "3" "0"       ; Simple EGA/VGA monitor, again 80 by 25.
change-font "3" "1"       ; Simple EGA/VGA monitor using spec, 80 by 50.
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Most Trident cards support the following text mode:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
change-font "86" "0"      ; Sweet 132 by 60
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
A Diamond Stealth supports the following mode:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
change-font "85" "1"      ; Nice 132 by 50
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Cirrus video cards (1MB) seem to support:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
change-font "84" "1"      ; PT-526 (132x50)
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Time to start digging out your graphics card manual!
.SS "Microsoft Windows"
The  Microsoft  Windows  console  version  does not  support  the  changing of fonts as the Windows  Console  does not
officially  support such a feature. However the  \fBchange-font\fR  command can be used to inform \*(mS of the type of
character set to use for copy text to and from the system clipboard.
.PP 
The Microsoft Windows environments utilize font files to drive the display. When
.B change-font
is invoked, by default a font dialog is presented to the user to allow the
font to be selected, the dialog only lists fixed width fonts as proportially  based fonts are not supported due to the
way in which \*(mS renders to the screen.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the  command,  where the bits are defined as
follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Prompt the user for the new font details,  either using a Windows font  selection  dialog (see bit  \fB0x08\fR)  or by
entering the font details manually, see below.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the new font is not applied, this bit is useful when information about a font is wanted.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the command does not alter the value of variable
.Ht $result 5 .
When not set \fB$result\fR is set to the following information about the font in a \*(mS list format:
.CS
"|<ptch-tech>|<char-set>|<weight>|<pixel-width>|<pixel-height>|<width>|<height>|<fontName>|"
.CE 0
.IP
The  \fB<ptch-tech>\fR  is an bitwise integer value where bit 1 indicates the font is not fixed width, bit 2 indicates
it is a vector font and bit 4 that it is a TrueType font. Note that the \fB<width>\fR and \fB<height>\fR values are in
logical  units and  usually  differ to the actual  size in pixels, see  \fBwidth\fR  and  \fBheight\fR  below for more
details.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
When set with bit  \fB0x01\fR a Windows  font  selection  dialog is opened to allow the user to select their  required
font.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
When set with bit  \fB0x08\fR  the  Windows  font  selection  dialog  lists all fonts, not just fixed  width ones. Use
with care, most proportional fonts are unusable.
.PP
The default value when \fBn\fR is not specified is 9.
.PP
When entering the font details manually, the following information is required:
.IP "\fIcharSet\fR"
The type of character set required, this is an integer value of:-
.RS
.IP
\fC\ \ 0\fR \- ANSI or Western (True Type etc)
.br
\fC161\fR \- Greek
.br
\fC162\fR \- Turkish
.br
\fC204\fR \- Russian
.br
\fC255\fR \- OEM (or bitmapped)
.RE
.IP \fIfontName\fR
The name of the font - maximum of 32 characters, use fixed mono fonts only. Proportional fonts may be specified but
the cursor will not align with the characters on the screen.
.sp
An empty name ("") may be specified in which case no further  details are  requested  and the default font is used for
the given character set.
.sp
Note that, depending on the version of Windows, \fBCourier New\fR may not actually be a fixed mono font as might be expected.
.IP \fIweight\fR
The weight of the font. The values are defined as:-
.RS
.IP
.nf
\fC0\fR \- Don't care (Automatically selected).
\fC1\fR \- Thin
\fC2\fR \- Extra Light
\fC3\fR \- Light
\fC4\fR \- Normal
\fC5\fR \- Medium
\fC6\fR \- Semi-Bold
\fC7\fR \- Bold
\fC8\fR \- Extra-Bold
\fC9\fR \- Heavy
.fi
.RE
.IP
Note that you may request a weight and it is not honored. Typically 4 and 7 are honored by most font definitions. 4 is
typically used.
.IP \fIwidth\fR
The width of the font.  Specifies the average  width, in logical  units, of characters in the requested  font. If this
value is zero, the font mapper  chooses a "closest  match" value. The "closest match" value is determined by comparing
the absolute  values of the difference  between the current  device's  aspect ratio and the digitized  aspect ratio of
available fonts.
.sp
Note that if the width is specified as zero then the height  should be specified  and the width will be  automatically
selected.
.IP \fIheight\fR
The height of the font.  Specifies the desired  height, in logical units, of the requested  font's  character  cell or
character. (The character height value is the character cell height value minus the  internal-leading  value.) If this
value is greater than zero, the font mapper matches it against  available  character cell height values; if this value
is zero, the font mapper uses a default  height  value when it searches  for a match; if this value is less than zero,
the font mapper matches it against available character height values.
.PP
Note: as with the weight the width and height may not be honored if the font cannot support the specified width/height
in which case the closest matching height is automatically selected
.SS "Notes on the Standard Windows Configuration"
For releases  prior to '99, the  \fBTerminal\fR  font is the standard  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  font used for the  \s-1MS-DOS\s0
window. This is an \s-1OEM\s0  fixed width character set which contains all of the  conventional  symbols found in the
\s-1DOS\s0 shell.
.PP
Releases of \*(mS post '99 may utilise any of the windows fonts, typically
.C "Courier New"
or
.C "Lucida Console"
are used, these provide the best screen rendering of characters.
.C "Lucida Console"
is  slightly  better  with a smaller  font size as this allows a '\fC1\fR'  (one) and  '\fCl\fR'  (lower case L) to be
distinguished.
.PP
The  \fBTerminal\fR  fonts are the same as shown in the DOS window the last 2  arguments  are the width x height,  the
terminal equivalents (Bit Mapped) are commented here.
.IP \fB7x12\fR
Regular weight seems to offer the best resolution for 14/15" monitors.
.IP \fB6x8\fR
Regular  weight is more  suitable  for  17-21"  monitors  which  offer  better
resolutions.
.LP
The best options for the fonts are defined as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
;Standard Terminal Fonts - standard weight
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4  4  6
change-font 0 "Terminal" 4  6  8
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4  8  8
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4  5 12
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4  7 12
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4  8 12
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4 12 16
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 4 10 18

;Standard Terminal Fonts - heavy weight
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7  4  6
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7  6  8
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7  8  8
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7  5 12
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7  7 12
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7  8 12
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7 12 16
;change-font 0 "Terminal" 7 10 18
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The  "\fBCourier  New\fR"  font is not  actually a fixed mono font as might be
expected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht change-frame-width 2 ,
.Ht change-frame-depth 2 ,
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.ad
.FH
