.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd082.2,v 2.7 2005-01-16 16:47:35 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|delete
.ds C0 "(\fB\*ck\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH kill-line 2
.XI kill-line - "\*(C0Delete all characters to the end of the line"
.SH NAME
kill-line \- Delete all characters to the end of the line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBkill-line\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR kill-line ,
when used with no  argument  \fIn\fR,  deletes all text from the cursor to the
end of a line, the end of line  character  is NOT deleted. The deleted text is
placed in the kill buffer, see
.Ht yank 2
for more  information  on the kill buffer. If the line is blank then the whole
line is deleted, including the end of line character.
.PP
If a +ve  argument  \fIn\fR  is  supplied  the  specified  number of lines are
deleted. If a \-ve  argument is  specified  the  previous  -\fIn\fR  lines are
deleted. If \fIn\fR is \fC0\fR the command has no effect.
.SH NOTES
If a line is accidentally removed then use
.Hl yank yank 2
to restore the text or use
.Ht undo 2 .
.PP
The Emacs Key  binding  for kill line  (\*(C0) may be  re-bound  to affect the
behavior of the command.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; MicroEmacs binding. Bind to kill the end of line character
1 global-bind-key kill-line "C-k"

; GNU Emacs binding. Bind to leave the end of line character
  global-bind-key kill-line "C-k"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH HISTORY
The behavior of \fBkill-line\fR was modified in November 2004. \fBkill-line\fR
now interprets the numeric  argument  \fIn\fR in both a +ve and -ve direction.
The  existing  implementation  did not  operated in a -ve  direction,  the -ve
argument controlled the kill buffer behavior of the line. The kill behavior is
no longer an option to \fBkill-line\fR and the line(s) are always added to the
kill buffer,  control of the kill buffer is required  then deletion  should be
performed with
.Ht kill-region 2 .
.PP
The behavior of the end of line kill used to be controlled by a
.Hr line 2m
mode, this  behavior  may be  replicated  by  modification  of the  binding as
described in the previous section.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht forward-kill-word 2 ,
.Ht global-bind-key 2 ,
.Ht kill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
.Ht undo 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
