.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd039.2,v 2.6 2023/03/01 13:34:46 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|bind|help
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX?\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH describe-key 2
.XI describe-key - "\*(C0Report keyboard key name and binding"
.SH NAME
describe-key \- Report keyboard key name and binding
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBdescribe-key\fR "\fIkey\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B describe-key
allows  a key to be typed  and it will  report  the name of the  command  bound to that key (if any) and the  internal
key-code. This command is useful when trying to locate the identity of keyboard keys for binding. The
.Ht $result 5
variable is set to the bound command or an empty string if the key is not bound.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When this bit is not set all messages to the message-line are suppressed enabling it to be used in macro
code as a way of determining if a key is currently bound.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set then message-line bindings are included in the lookup rather than buffer bindings.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If this bit is set then current buffer bindings are not included in the key lookup.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht command-apropos 2 ,
.Ht global-bind-key 2 ,
.Ht buffer-bind-key 2 ,
.Ht ml-bind-key 2 ,
.Ht describe-bindings 2 ,
.Ht describe-variable 2 ,
.Ht $result 5 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
