.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd086.2,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|cursor
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cHv\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH list-variables 2
.XI list-variables \- "\*(C0List defined variables"
.SH NAME
list-variables \- List defined variables
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBlist-variables\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B list-variables
pops up a window with a list of all  register,  buffer,  user and global  variables  with their  current  setting. The
variables are shown for the current buffer from which the command was invoked
.PP
The numerical argument \fIn\fR is a bitwise flag which determines the information that is displayed by the command, it
is interpreted follows:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
The default,  when the bit is set displays the  variables of only the current  buffer and no command  variables.  When
clear it displays the variables of all buffers and commands/macros (including hidden).
.PP
.B list-variables
provides a good alternative to
.Ht describe-variable 2
where the value of multiple variables is to be interrogated.
.PP
The default output is displayed in four sections:-
.IP "\fBRegister variables\fR"
The current settings of the global register variables ('\fB#\fR' prefix).
.IP "\fBBuffer Variables\fR"
The current setting of the buffer variables ('\fB:\fR' prefix). This variables
relate to the current buffer from which the command was invoked.
.IP "\fBSystem Variables\fR"
The current settings of the system variables ('\fB$\fR' prefix).
.IP "\fBGlobal Variables\fR"
The current setting of the global variables ('\fB%\fR' prefix).
.SH EXAMPLE
An example output from
.B list-variables
is shown below:-
.CS
Register variables:

    #g0 ........................... "29"
    #g1 ........................... ""
    #g2 ........................... "ERROR"
    :
    :
    #g8 ........................... "ERROR"
    #g9 ........................... "ERROR"

Buffer [m2cmd086.2] variables:


System variables:

    $auto-time .................... "300"
    $buffer-bhook ................. "bhook-nroff"
    $buffer-bname ................. "m2cmd086.2"
    $buffer-ehook ................. "ehook-nroff"
    $buffer-fhook ................. "fhook-nroff"
    $buffer-fmod .................. "040"
    $buffer-fname ................. "d:/emacs/doc/m2cmd086.2"
    $buffer-hilight ............... "3"
    :
    :
    $window-width ................. "80"
    $window-x-scroll .............. "0"
    $window-xcl-scroll ............ "0"
    $window-y-scroll .............. "52"

Global variables:

    %company-name ................. "JASSPA"
    %compile-com .................. "build "
    %diff-com ..................... "diff -c -w"
    :
    :
    %tag-file ..................... "tags"
    %tag-option ................... "rcemsv"
    %xgrep-com .................... "grep -n "
.CE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht describe-variable 2 ,
.Ht list-commands 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
