.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd154.2,v 2.6 2005-01-23 15:28:55 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|registry
.so me.tni
.TH mark-registry 2
.XI mark-registry - "Modify the operating mode of a registry node"
.SH NAME
mark-registry \- Modify the operating mode of a registry node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B mark-registry
"\fIroot\fR"
"\fImode\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mark-registry
modifies the \fImode\fR of a registry node \fIroot\fR. If an argument  \fIn\fR
is supplied then the \fIn\fRth  register node down from  \fBroot\fR (as viewed
from
.Ht list-registry 2
output) is modified  instead. The \fImode\fR is string  specifying  the modes,
each mode is  represented  by a character.  Lower case  characters add a mode,
upper case characters delete a mode. The modes are defined as:-
.IP "\fB?\fR \- Query Name"
Returns  the full  name,  including  path, of the given  registry  node in the
variable
.Ht $result 5 .
This does not alter the registry.
.IP "\fB!\fR \- Hide Value"
Hides  the  value  of the  given  registry  node,  i.e. the node is  displayed
but its  value  will not be displayed in the output of
.Ht list-registry 2 .
Once set, this mode cannot be removed.
.IP "\fBa\fR \- Autosave"
Automatically  saves the  registry  when it is  deleted or  unloaded  from the
registry. The user is not prompted for a save.
.IP "\fBb\fR \- Backup"
Automatically performs a backup of the registry file whenever a save operation
is performed.
.IP "\fBc\fR \- Create"
If the registry file cannot be loaded then the \fIroot\fR  node is created and
the  invocation  succeeds.  If this mode is omitted  then the call fails if the
\fIfile\fR cannot be found.
.IP "\fBd\fR \- Discard"
Marks the registry as discardable.  This is typically used for registries that
are not saved.
.IP "\fBf\fR \- File"
The  registry  node is  marked  as a file  root, the value  must be set to the
registry file name.
.IP "\fBg\fR \- Get Modes"
Returns  the list of modes  currently  set on the given  registry  node in the
variable
.Ht $result 5 .
This does not alter the registry.
.IP "\fBh\fR \- Hierarchy Hidden"
The registry  node is marked as  \fIHidden\fR,  i.e. its children  will not be
shown in
.Ht list-registry 2
output. A node is marked has hidden when it is folded up.
.IP "\fBi\fR \- Invisible"
The registry node is not displayed in the 
.Ht list-registry 2 
output.
.IP "\fBm\fR \- Merge"
Marks the  registry  to enable  merging, see
.Ht read-registry 2 .
.IP "\fBr\fR \- Reload"
Marks the registry to enable reload, see
.Ht read-registry 2 . 
.IP "\fBu\fR \- Updated"
Marks the registry as modified.  The modified bit is removed when the registry
file is saved. If the  modified  bit is  applied  to a registry  node the user
will be  prompted  to save  the  registry  when it is  deleted  (or it will be
automatically saved when the \fIAutosave\fR mode is used).
.IP "\fBy\fR \- Encryption"
Marks the  registry  node for  encryption.  The value of the registry  node is
encrypted using the internal  encryption  algorithm. The value will not appear
in plain text when using
.Ht save-registry 2 .
This is typically used for password information etc.
.PP
Multiple modes may be applied.
.SH EXAMPLE
A history registry can be hidden with the following invocation:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
mark-registry "/history" "h"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
It could then be made visible again using:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
mark-registry "/history" "H"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH BUGS
At exit only registry nodes attached to the root are saved.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B mark-registry
fails if \fIroot\fR does not exist.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-registry 3 ,
.Ht delete-registry 2 ,
.Ht find-registry 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2 ,
.Ht read-registry 2 ,
.Ht save-registry 2 ,
.Ht set-registry 2 ,
.Ht &reg 4 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
