.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd042.2,v 2.9 2009/08/29 17:13:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|registry
.so me.tni
.TH set-registry 2
.XI set-registry - "Modify a node value in the registry"
.SH NAME
set-registry \- Modify a node value in the registry.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBset-registry\fR "\fIroot\fR" \fI"value\fR"
.br
\fI2\fR \fBset-registry\fR "\fIroot\fR" \fI"new-name\fR"
.ad
.SH INTRODUCTION
The  \fIregistry\fR  is a  hierarchical  tree of node  names  optionally  with
associated  node  values that is used for storing and  retrieving  values. The
registry  mechanism  is  used  for  saving  and  retrieving   persistent  user
information between sessions.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B set-registry
adds a new value or modifies an existing value in the registry.  \fIroot\fR is
an  absolute  path  node  name to the new  entry.  The  first  path  component
\s-1MUST\s0  exist or the call fails,  subsequent path components (a `\fC/\fR'
separated  path) are created if they do not already exist.  \fIvalue\fR is the
value to assign to the node.
.PP
If  a  numeric  argument  of 2 is  specified  the  \fIroot\fR  is  renamed  to
\fInew-name\fR,   the  \fIroot\fR  must  exist  or  the  call  fails.  If  the
\fInew-name\fR contains a path (i.e.  "\fCnew/path/name\fR") the registry node
is moved to the new path  which must be an  existing  absolute  path, i.e. not
relative to its current location.
.PP
The value assigned to a node with
.B set-registry
may be retrieved using
.Ht &reg 4 .
.SH EXAMPLE
The following call (where the registry node \fC/history\fR already exists):
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-registry "/history/foo/windows/printer" "foo-bar"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
constructs a registry hierarchy of the form:-
.CS
"history" {
  "foo" {
    "windows" {
      "printer"="foo-bar";
    }
  }
}
.CE
The value of the registry node may be retrieved using:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
&reg "/history/foo/windows/printer"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
which would return the value "\fCfoo-bar\fR".
.SH HISTORY
The
.Hr get-registry 2
command was removed in January 2005 in  preference to the
.Ht &reg 4
function, the existing get command was never used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-registry 3 ,
.Ht delete-registry 2 ,
.Ht find-registry 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2 ,
.Ht mark-registry 2 ,
.Ht read-registry 2 ,
.Ht &reg 4 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
