.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd158.2,v 2.12 2023/02/21 12:07:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH file-op 2
.XI file-op \- "File system operations command"
.SH NAME
file-op \- File system operations command
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B file-op
[ ( [ "\fIfrom-file\fR" "\fIto-file\fR" ] ) |
.br
.RS
( ["\fIdelete-file\fR"] ) | ( ["\fIdir-name\fR"] ) |
.br
( [ "\fIchmod-file\fR" "\fImode\fR" ] ) ]
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B file-op
can  be  used  to  perform   numerous  file  system   operations.   The  given
argument  \fIn\fR must be used to determine the required  operation, the value
is a bit based flag denoting the operation as follows:
.IP \fB0x010\fR
Log-off  and close down the current ftp connect  (not a file system  operation
but functionality was required and it had to go somewhere).
.IP \fB0x020\fR
When this bit is set the command  functionality is changed to delete-file, the
single  argument  \fIdelete-file\fR  is deleted.  Note this can also  delete a
directory if the directory is empty.
.IP \fB0x040\fR
When this bit is set the command  functionality  is changed to move-file,  the
specified   \fIfrom-file\fR   is  moved  to  \fIto-file\fR.
.IP \fB0x080\fR
When this bit is set the command  functionality  is changed to copy-file,  the
specified   \fIfrom-file\fR   is  copied  to  \fIto-file\fR.
.IP \fB0x100\fR
When this bit is set the  command  functionality  is  changed  to making a new
directory,  the specified  \fIdir-name\fR  is the name of the new directory. A
file or directory of the given name must not already exist.
.IP \fB0x200\fR
When this bit is set the  command  functionality  is changed to a change  mode
type of operation.  \fIchmod-file\fR is the name of the file (or directory) to
change and  \fImode\fR is the integer mode to apply. Note that the  \fImode\fR
value is operating  system specific. The file attributes may be retrieved with
the 
.Ht &stat 4 
command.
.LP
Only one operation can be performed per  invocation. The following bits in the
given  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  effect  the  behaviour  of  these
operations:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables validity checks, these include a check that the proposed file does not
already exist, if so  confirmation of writing is requested from the user. Also
\*(mS checks all other current buffers for one with the proposed file name, if
found, again  confirmation  is  requested.  Without this flag the command will
always succeed wherever possible.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Creates a backup of any file about to be deleted or over-written. Set help on
.Ht $buffer-backup 5
for backup file-name generation.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When validity  checks are enabled (see bit 0x01 above) and this bit is set, if
a problem is found the command aborts rather than prompting the user. Also see
the error return codes in the notes section below.
.IP \fB0x80\fR
When this bit is set then the files time stamp is preserved.
.SH NOTES
\fBhttp\fR and \fBhttps\fR files are not supported except as the source file when copying.  \fBftp\fR,  \fBftpe\fR and
\fBftps\fR  files  are  fully  supported,  however  note that if moving a file from and to the same ftp site \*mS will
attempt to use an ftp rename command, if this fails try moving the file locally and then move if back to the ftp site.
.PP
The command is used by
.Ht file-browser 3
and
.Ht ftp 3
which provides an easy to use interfaces for file manipulation.
.PP
When the command fails an error code is returned in the
.Ht $result 5
variable, which will be one of the following:
.IP \fB0\fR
User aborted.
.IP \fB1\fR
General error.
.IP \fB2\fR
Failure due to a read error.
.IP \fB3\fR
Failure due to a write error.
.IP \fB4\fR
Failure due to a directory creation error.
.IP \fB5\fR
Failure due to a file or directory deletion error.
.IP \fB6\fR
Failure due to file write checks, i.e. file already exists etc.
.IP \fB7\fR
Failure due to directory creation checks, i.e. the directory or file already exists.
.IP \fB8\fR
Failure due to file delete checks, i.e. file is read only.
.IP \fB9\fR
Failure due to source and destination files are URLs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht file-browser 3 ,
.Ht ftp 3 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht &stat 4 ,
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht $temp-name 5 .
.ad
.FH
