.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd150.2,v 2.8 2009/08/29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file|buffer
.so me.tni
.TH save-some-buffers 2
.XI save-some-buffers - "Save contents of all changed buffers to file (with query)"
.SH NAME
save-some-buffers \- Save contents of all changed buffers to file (with query)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B save-some-buffers
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B save-some-buffers
cycles through all visible buffers (buffers without mode
.Ht hide 2m
set) and attempts to save all modified  ones, writing the contents back to the
file from where it was read. For each buffer that has been  modified  the user
is prompted to save the buffer, the following responses can be given:
.IP \fBy\fR
Saves the buffer and moves to the next modified buffer.
.IP \fBn\fR
Does not save the buffer and moves to the next modified buffer.
\fBa\fR
Saves all remaining modified buffers including the current one without further prompting.
\fBo\fR
Skips all remaining buffers including the current one.
\fBg\fR
Display the buffer and aborts the command.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  change  the  default  behavior  of
save-some-buffers described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables the user prompt before the buffer is saved  (default). If this flag is
not supplied then all modified visible buffers will be written.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht save-buffers-exit-emacs 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht hide 2m .
.ad
.FH
