.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd056.2,v 2.11 2023/02/21 11:57:14 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cf\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH find-file 2
.XI find-file \- "\*(C0Load a file"
.SH NAME
find-file \- Load a file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B find-file
"\fIfile-name\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B find-file
finds the named file  \fIfile-name\fR. If it is already in a buffer, make that
buffer active in the current window, otherwise  attempt to create a new buffer
and read the file into it.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If the file does not exist and this bit is not set the  command  fails at this
point.  If the file  does not  exist  and this bit is set (or no  argument  is
specified  as the  default  argument  is \fC1\fR)  then a new empty  buffer is
created with the given file name, saving the buffer subsequently creates a new
file.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht binary 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBbinary\fR  mode for more  information on editing
binary data files.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht crypt 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBcrypt\fR  mode for more  information  on editing
encrypted files.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht rbin 2m
mode enabled. See help on \fBrbin\fR  mode for more  information  on efficient
editing of binary data files.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
If this bit is set then the file hook  evaluation  is not  performed  when the
file is loaded (i.e. the 
.Hl "buffer's file hook"  fileHooks  2 
is not executed).
.PP
Text files are  usually thought  of as named  collections of  text residing on
disk (or some other storage medium).  In \*(mE the disk based versions of
files come into play only  when reading into or  writing out buffers. The link
between the physical file and the buffer is through the associated file name.
.PP
\*(mE permits full file names, i.e. you can specify:
.CS
disk:\\directories\\filename.extension
.CE
or (\s-1UNIX\s0)
.CS
/directories/filename.extension
.CE
If the disk and  directories  are not  specified,  the current  buffers  disk/
directory is used.  Several  points  should be noted in respect to the methods
that \*(mS utilizes in the handling of files:-
.BS 1 1
Without  explicitly saving the buffer(s) to file, all edits would be lost upon
leaving  \*(mS \- you are  asked to  confirm  whenever  you are  about to lose
edits.
.BU
\*(mS  has a mechanism  for  "protecting"  your  disk-based  files from
overwriting  when it saves files. When  instructed to save a file, it proceeds
to dump  the file to disk,  making a backup  of the  existing  file  when
.Ht backup 2m
mode is enabled.
.BU
Auto-saving files  can  be  performed  on edited  buffers  by  setting the
.Ht $auto-time 5
variable. The file is saved in the same place with a '\fC#\fR' appended to the
file name. This can be used  directly by the user or in the unlikely  event of
\*(mS crashing (or system crash), the files are  automatically  recovered next
time it is edited.
.BE
If you do not wish to perform any edits but merely browse the file(s), add the
.Ht view 2m
mode to the buffer or ask for the file to be read in for
.Hl viewing view-file 2
only.
.SS "RCS Support"
If the file does not exist and the variable
.Ht $rcs-file 5
is set then the  existence of the  \s-1RCS\s0  file is tested. If the rcs file
exists  then it will be  checked  out using a  command-line  created  from the
variable
.Ht $rcs-co-com 5 .
If the check-out is successful then this file is loaded.
.PP
This raw interface for  supporting  file revision  control  systems has been adapted to support SCCS and Visual Source
Safe see help on variable \fB$rcs-file\fR for more information and examples. 
.SS "HTTP Support"
\*(mS supports http file loading, this is available by default on \s-1UNIX\s0 systems and most windows platforms
(socket libraries not available on all win95 machines or earlier). When available a http file can be loaded by simply
executing \fBfind-file\fR and giving the http file name, i.e.
.\"
"\fChttp://user:password@address:port/file\fR".  Only the \fChttp://\fR,  \fCaddress\fR and \fC/file\fR components are
mandatory, the rest can usually be omitted. e.g.:
.CS
find-file "http://www.jasspa.com/index.html"
.CE
See help page on
.Ht %http-proxy-addr 5
for information on HTTP proxy server support.
.PP
The progress of the HTTP transfer, and the HTTP commands  issued, may be viewed
in the \fC*http-console*\fR  buffer. This is popped up depending on the setting
of the
.Ht %http-flags 5 
variable.
.SS "HTTPS Support"
\*(mS can be compiled to support https using OpenSSL, when  available the interface is the same as for http except the
prefix is \fChttps://\fR. When loading https URLs the libcrypt and libssl OpenSSL dynamic  libraries must be available at
runtime, if they are not available the function returns an error. The
.Ht %http-flags 5
variable can be used to alter the behaviour, in particular the '\fBi\fR' flag which can be used to ignore  certificate
errors.
.SS "FTP support"
\*(mS  supports  ftp file  loading,  this is  identical to http except the prefix  \fCftp://\fR  is used as opposed to
\fChttp://\fR. The user name and password defaults to \fIanonymous\fR  and  "\fIftp@example.com\fR"  in the absence of
both these  fields. If the user name is supplied but not the password the password  will be prompted  for; this can be
useful as the password will not be stored or written to the history file. Connection is by default on port 21.
.CS
find-file "ftp://<me>:<password>@members.xoom.com/jasspa/index.html"
.CE
See also 
.Ht ftp 3 .
.PP
The progress of the FTP transfer, and the FTP commands issued, may be viewed in the  \fC*ftp-console*\fR  buffer. This
is popped up depending on the setting of the
.Ht %ftp-flags 5 
variable.
.SS "Secure FTP support"
There are two standards for secure FTP, explicit and implicit.
.PP
Explicit ftp typically  uses the default port 21 and the initial  connection is established  without  encryption,  the
client then  explicitly  requests  secure  comms,  hopefully  before the user name and password are  submitted.  \*(mS
supports  explicit  ftp by using a  non-standard  \fCftpe://\fR  URL prefix,  this  allows an  explicit  ftp URL to be
distinguish  from an open ftp request. Note that the ftp server may refuse the request to make the connection  secure,
this is not considered a failure by \*(mS so the \fB*ftp-console*\fR should be checked if secure comms is required.
.PP
Like \fBHTTPS\fR, implicit ftp requires a secure connect to be established up front, by default it uses port 990. \*(mS
supports  implicit  ftp by using the  standard  \fCftps://\fR  URL prefix (not to be confused  with sftp which is used
to denote file transfer through an ssh connection).
.SH NOTES
The  base  name  part  (i.e.  not the  path) of  \fCfile-name\fR  can  contain
wild-card characters compatible with most file systems, namely:-
.IP \fB?\fR
Match any character.
.IP \fB[abc]\fR
Match character only if it is \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR or \fIc\fR.
.IP \fB[a-d]\fR
Match character only if it is \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR or \fId\fR.
.IP \fB[^abc]\fR
Match character only if it is not \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR or \fIc\fR.
.IP \fB*\fR
Match any number of characters.
.PP
If the name  matches  more than one file, a buffer  will be  created  for each
matching file. Note that these are not the same wild-card characters used by
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2 .
.PP
For \fIftp\fR and  \fIhttp\fR  then a ftp console  window is opened up to show
the progress of the transfer (when configured), this is described in 
.Ht ftp 3 .
.SH "NOTES"
The automatic loading of very large files can be avoided by setting the variable
.Ht $file-size-prompt 5
to an appropriate size.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht auto 2m ,
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht crypt 2m ,
.Ht rbin 2m ,
.Ht time 2m ,
.Ht view 2m ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht file-attrib 3 ,
.Ht file-op 2 ,
.Ht find-bfile 3 ,
.Ht ftp 3 ,
.Ht next-window-find-file 2 ,
.Ht page-bfile 3 ,
.Ht page-file 3 ,
.Ht read-file 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht view-file 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht $file-size-prompt 5 ,
.Ht $rcs-file 5 ,
.Ht %ftp-flags 5 ,
.Ht %http-flags 5 ,
.Ht %http-proxy-addr 5 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
