.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd048.2,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:31 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH execute-string 2
.XI execute-string \- "Execute a string as a command"
.SH NAME
execute-string \- Execute a string as a command
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B execute-string
"\fIstring\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B execute-string
executes the given \fIstring\fR \fIn\fR times as if it is being typed. This is
the  writable  format of a  keyboard  macro, it can be placed in any  \fBemf\fR
file. Any characters may form the  \fIstring\fR  (unprintables as \fC\\xXX\fR)
and  key-strokes  that are bound to a command will execute that  command. This
command is used by macros to store user defined keyboard macros.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example uses keyboard  strokes with  \fBexecute-string\fR  in a
macro to format
.Hr nroff 1
text located between \fC.\fR commands:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro nroff-para
    beginning-of-line
    !if &not &sequal @wc "."
        1 buffer-mode "magic"
        execute-string "\\CXS^\\\\.\\CM\\CB\\CM\\CX\\CH\\CN\\CM"
        -1 fill-paragraph
        execute-string "\\CD\\CX\\CH\\CN\\CD\\CXH\\CB"
    !endif
    forward-line
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
.B execute-string
has the  advantage  that  execution  is very fast as the amount of parsing and
decoding  to be  performed  is  limited.  The  disadvantage  is that you cannot
quickly discern which operations are being performed !!
.SH NOTES
Try to avoid using named key, such as "\fCup\fR"  and  "\fCreturn\fR",  as the
keyboard  macro  equivalent  is not readable and is likely to change in future
releases.
.PP
For this reason the following special abbreviations may be used
.IP \fB\\\\E\fR
The "\fBescape\fR" key.
.IP \fB\\\\N\fR
The "\fBreturn\fR" key.
.IP \fB\\\\T\fR
The "\fBtab\fR" key.
.IP \fB\\\\b\fR
The backspace character (0x08).
.IP \fB\\\\d\fR
The delete character (0x7f).
.IP \fB\\\\e\fR
The escape character (0x1b).
.IP \fB\\\\f\fR
The form-feed character (0x0c).
.IP \fB\\\\n\fR
The carriage-return character (0x0a).
.IP \fB\\\\r\fR
The line-feed character (0x0d).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-abbrev-file 2 ,
.Ht global-abbrev-file 2 ,
.Ht insert-macro 2 ,
.Ht name-kbd-macro 2 ,
.Ht start-kbd-macro 2 .
.ad
.FH
