.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd105.2,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:27:58 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|shell
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cq\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH rcs-file 2
.XI rcs-file - "\*(C0Handle Revision Control System (RCS) files"
.SH NAME
rcs-file \- Handle Revision Control System (RCS) files
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBrcs-file\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(mE \s-1RCS\s0  support command. The action of this command depends on the
current buffer
.Ht view 2m
mode state, the argument \fIn\fR, and the existence of an \s-1RCS\s0 file.
.IP "\fBview-mode ON; RCS file does not exist\fR"
Removes buffer view mode to enable the user to edit the file.
.IP "\fBview-mode ON; RCS file exists\fR"
\*(mS  attempts  to check out the file  using the  command  line  given by the
variable
.Ht $rcs-cou-com 5
(co unlock). The file is then reloaded and the view mode status re-evaluated.
.IP "\fBview-mode OFF; RCS file does not exist\fR"
\*(mS  attempts  to  check-in  the file into RCS for the first  time using the
command-line given by the variable
.Ht $rcs-cif-com 5
(ci first). The file is then reload.
.IP "\fBview-mode OFF; RCS file exists\fR"
\*(mS attempts to check-in the file into RCS using the  command-line  given by
the variable
.Ht $rcs-ci-com 5 .
The file is then reload.
.IP "\fB\-ve argument given\fR"
\*(mS  attempts to unedit any changes made to the file using the  command-line
given by the variable
.Ht $rcs-ue-com 5 .
The file is then reload.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hr rcs 1 .
.Ht $rcs-file 5 ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht view 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
