.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd101.2,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:03:56 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|print
.so me.tni
.TH print-buffer 2
.XI print-buffer - "Print buffer, with formatting"
.XI print-region - "Print region, with formatting"
.SH NAME
.Me "|print-buffer"
print-buffer \- Print buffer, with formatting
.br
.Me "|print-region"
print-region \- Print region, with formatting
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B print-buffer
.br
.I n
.B print-region
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B print-buffer
and
.B print-region
print the current buffer or region,  respectively, using  high-lighting  where
appropriate. The hilighting assigned to a buffer is defined by the variable
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5
the print scheme is defined with
.Ht print-scheme 2 ,
the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
should be used to create printer schemes.
.PP
The numerical argument \fIn\fR determines the number of copies required.
.PP
The printer is set up from the \fBFile->Printer Setup\fR menu.
.SS "Printing Under Microsoft Windows Environments"
Printing under Microsoft Windows Environments  automatically  invokes a dialog
box to assign and configure the printer page  characteristics.  The dialog box
allows  the  printer to be  selected,  enables  line  numbering,  headers  and
footers.
.PP
The dialog  allows the user to select the font size, by defining the number of
characters that appear on a logical page, and the number of logical pages that
appear  on  a  physical   page.   Selecting  the  logical  and  physical  page
characteristics  determine  the size of the font. For dense pages with a small
typeface then a point size of 6 is appropriate. For clarity, a larger typeface
of 10 or 12 points is advised.
.SH NOTES
If the current buffer has no specific  hilight-print  scheme then the default,
hilight-print scheme \fC0\fR, is used.
.PP
The last  printer  configuration  selected by the user is held in the registry
file in the \fIhistory\fR section.
.SH BUGS
Landscape printing under Microsoft Windows environments is temperamental.
.PP
Font selection under Microsoft Windows  environments does not always determine
the most appropriate font size.
.PP
The printer  interface  does not support  native  postscript  generation.  (In
progress).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht print-scheme 2 ,
.Ht hilight 2 ,
.Ht printall 3f ,
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5 .
.ad
.FH
