.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd058.2,v 2.6 2022/01/22 17:22:35 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|shell
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX`\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH get-next-line 2
.XI get-next-line \- "\*(C0Find the next command line"
.SH NAME
get-next-line \- Find the next command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBget-next-line\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B get-next-line
is typically  used in conjunction with
the
.Ht compile 3
and
.Ht grep 3
commands to enable the user to step through  errors/locations  one by one. The
command looks for lines in the form defined by
.Ht add-next-line 2
in the order of definition. If a match is found the command attempts to
find the next error or warning found from the current location (See
.Ht  compile 3 ).
If the buffer was not found then the next  buffer set is searched  for, and if
found then the next expression from the cursor is  automatically  located. The
command  fails  if none of the  buffers  exist,  or the end of the  buffer  is
reached.
.PP
The argument \fIn\fR  can be used to change the default  behavior of get-next-line
described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Use  popup-window to display the buffer containing the next location in a different window (default) when this
flag is not given the window  containing the 'next' command output, or the current window if the 'next' command output
is not currently displayed.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set The command returns an error if the current buffer is not a 'next' command buffer, this effectively force the
command to only get the next line in the current buffer. This flag is used by
.Hl "ipipe output processing macros" $buffer-ipipe 5
to highlight error lines in the current buffer.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the command does not open the  file/buffer  containing the next location,  leaving the 'next' command buffer
current with the cursor at the next line.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $file-template 5 ,
.Ht $line-template 5 .
.Ht add-next-line 2 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht grep 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
