.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m2cmd129.2
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd129.2,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:03:56 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|print|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH print-color 2
.XI print-color - "Create a new printer color"
.XI print-scheme - "Create a new printer color and font scheme"
.SH NAME
.br
.Me "|print-color"
print-color \- Create a new printer color
.br
.Me "|print-scheme"
print-scheme \- Create a new printer color and font scheme
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B print-color 
"\fIcol-no\fR"
"\fIred\fR"
"\fIgreen\fR"
"\fIblue\fR"
.br
.I n
.B print-scheme
"\fIschemeNum\fR"
"\fIfore\fR"
"\fIback\fR"
"\fIfont-mask\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B print-color
and
.B print-scheme
are similar to
.Ht add-color 2
and
.Ht add-color-scheme 2
except they configure \*(mS's printer scheme.
.PP
\fBprint-color\fR  creates a new printer color and inserts it into the printer
color  table,  where  \fIred\fR,  \fIgreen\fR  and  \fIblue\fR  are the  color
components  and  \fIcol-no\fR  is the printer  color index. The printer  color
table  contains  256  entries  indexed  by  \fIcol-no\fR  in the range  0-255.
\fBprint-color\fR may also be used to modify an existing \fIcol-no\fR index by
re-assignment,  the existing  color  definition is  over-written  with the new
color definition.
.PP
print-scheme creates a new printer scheme which defines how schemes, used by
.Ht hilight 2
when rendering a buffer's text, are to be printed. For example key words could
be  printed  in bold or in blue  etc. It  takes an  identifying  index  number
"\fIschemeNum\fR", two color values, "\fIfore\fR" and "\fIback\fR" (defined by
\fBprint-color\fR)  and a font setting  "\fIfont-mask\fR". The \fIfont-mask\fR
is a bit mask where each bit is defined as follows:
.sp
.RS
\fC0x01\fR Enable bold font.
.br
\fC0x02\fR Enable italic font.
.br
\fC0x04\fR Enable light font.
.br
\fC0x08\fR Enable reverse font.
.br
\fC0x10\fR Enable underlining.
.RE
.SH NOTES
Printer schemes can be created and altered using the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
dialog, the created printer scheme can then the used directly in the
.Ht print-setup 3
dialog. Therefore direct use of these commands is largely redundant.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht print-buffer 2 ,
.Ht hilight 2 ,
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5 .
.ad
.FH
