.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd145.2,v 2.12 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|message
.so me.tni
.TH ml-write 2
.XI ml-write - "Write message on message line"
.SH NAME
ml-write \- Write message on message line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fI0\fR \fBml-write\fR
.br
\fIn\fR \fBml-write\fR "\|\fImessage\fR\|"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ml-write
writes the  argument  "\|\fImessage\fR\|"  to the message  line. If a positive
numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is specified  then the message is displayed  with a
\fIn\fR milliseconds  uninterruptible  delay allowing the user time to see the
message.
.PP
The arguments to \fBml-write\fR are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fINo argument\fR"
The default form, writes a \fImessage\fR to the command line with no delay.
.IP "\fI+ve\fR"
Displays the \fImessage\fR on the message line and waits \fIn\fR  milliseconds
before proceeding with the next command.
.IP \fC0\fR
the \fImessage\fR  argument is not required and the command clears the message
line. This may be used to clear any previous  message from the last command(s)
in a script and is equivalent to the old \*(mS command \fBml-clear\fR.
.\"The previous message is restored. As an  example,  a
.\"callback macro may interrupt the user while using the message-line (entering a
.\"file name or searching a buffer etc.), executing \fC2\  ml-write\fR at the end
.\"of the callback macro ensures that the  message-line is restored.
.IP \fC\-1\fR
Writes  the   \fImessage\fR   to   \fIstandard   out\fR.  A  carriage   return
(\fC'\\n'\fR) is automatically added to the end of the \fImessage\fR to create
a line on the given stream.
.IP \fC\-2\fR
Writes the    \fImessage\fR   to   \fIstandard   error\fR,  the  behaviour  is
the same as standard output (\fC\-1\fR option)
.SH NOTES
.\"A call to \fBml-write\fR  from a callback macro can erase a message line which
.\"is currently being used (to enter a buffer name say). A call to
.\"".C "2 ml-clear"
.\"restores the previous message-line.
.\".PP
If the argument  value is not \fC\-1\fR or \fC\-2\fR  calls to  \fBml-write\fR
are ignored in standard \*(mS piped mode (command-line  option \fB-p\fR). They
are  printed  to   \fIstandard   error\fR   when  debug  piped  mode  is  used
(command-line  option \fB-P\fR, see
.Ht me 1 ),
making the debugging and maintenance of macro based piped processing easier.
.PP
In previous releases the command  \fBml-clear\fR was used to clear the message
line, this command was replaced by \fC0 ml-write\fR in December 2004.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  call  displays a message on the  message-line  with a 2 second
pause:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
2000 ml-write "Hello World!"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The following
.Ht start-up 3
macro  may be  used  to add a  header  and  footer  line  to a file  piped  to
\fIstandard in\fR, writing the output to \fIstandard out\fR.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro start-up
    find-buffer "*stdin*"
    ml-write &spr "DEBUG: Read %d lines from stdin" $window-eline
    ml-write &spr "DEBUG: About to write header"
    -1 ml-write "<<<HEADER>>>"
    ml-write &spr "DEBUG: About to write body"
    0 save-buffer
    ml-write &spr "DEBUG: About to write footer"
    -1 ml-write "<<<FOOTER>>>"
    -2 ml-write &spr "%d lines written to stdout" &add $window-eline 2
    quick-exit
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
To  run  this   example  save  this  macro  in  a  new  macro  file  (such  as
\fCmlwrite_test.emf\fR) and in a shell run:
.CS
cat input_file | me -n -p @mlwrite_test - > output_file
.CE
Note the  \fCDEBUG\fR  lines will be printed if \fB-P\fR  option is used. Also
see example given for
.Ht command-wait 2 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht command-wait 2 ,
.Ht create-callback 2 ,
.Ht me 1 .
.ad
.FH
