.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd155.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:56 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|buffer
.so me.tni
.TH delete-some-buffers 2
.XI delete-some-buffers - "Delete buffers with query"
.SH NAME
delete-some-buffers \- Delete buffers with query
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B delete-some-buffers
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B delete-some-buffers
cycles through all visible buffers (buffers without mode
.Ht hide 2m
set) and prompts the user [\fBy\fR/\fBn\fR] as to whether the buffer should be
deleted. A \fBy\fR response deletes the buffer, a \fBn\fR response retains the
buffer.
.PP
If a \fBy\fR  response is given, the buffer has been edited, and its name does
not start with a '\fB*\fR' then the user is prompted as to whether the changes
should be discarded.  Also if the buffer has an active  process  running in it
then confirmation is sort from the user before the process is killed.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  change  the  default  behavior  of
delete-some-buffers described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  all checks  (default).  These  include the initial y/n prompt on each
buffer, the buffer has not been  modified  check, if so the user is  prompted.
Also if a process is running  then user must  confirm  that the process can be
killed. If this flag is not  supplied  then all  visible  buffers  are  killed
without any user prompts (useful in macros).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht delete-buffer 2 ,
.Ht next-buffer 2 ,
.Ht hide 2m .
.ad
.FH
