.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd125.2,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH spell 2
.XI spell - "Spell checker service provider"
.SH NAME
spell \- Spell checker service provider
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBspell\fR ["\fIword\fR"] ["\fIrules\fR"] ["\fIcorrection\fR"] ["\fIrule\fR"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBspell\fR is a low level command which provides spell checking  capabilities
for \*(mE, it is not designed to be used  directly. The action of  \fBspell\fR
depends on the argument given, which is a bitwise flag defined as follows:-
.IP \fB0x001\fR
If set then  gets the  input  word  from the user, i.e.  "\fIword\fR"  must be
supplied. Otherwise the word input is taken from the current buffer.
.IP \fB0x002\fR
If set then keeps  getting words from the current  buffer until either the end
of the  buffer is  reached  or an error is found. If the end of the  buffer is
reached then the command succeeds setting
.Ht $result 5
to the value  "\fIF\fR". This bit is ignored if bit 0x001 is set.  \fBspell\fR
sets the current show-region to enclose the problematical word and the command
.Ht show-region 2
can be used to move around the word.
.IP \fB0x004\fR
Adds the given word to a dictionary  determined  by the state of bit 0x008. If
the word is flagged as  erroneous  (see bit 0x010)  then a  "\fIcorrection\fR"
word must be supplied,  otherwise a list of "\fIrules\fR" which can be applied
to the word  must be given,  this list can be empty.  Note that if the word is
not flagged as erroneous and it already exists in the  dictionary, the word is
not removed, instead a combined rule list is created.
.IP \fB0x008\fR
When set flags  that word  additions  (bit  0x004) and  deletions  (bit 0x200)
should be made to the ignore dictionary. Otherwise word additions are made the
last added dictionary and deletions are made to all main dictionaries.
.IP \fB0x010\fR
When set flags that the given word is erroneous, used solely by word additions
to create auto-corrections.
.IP \fB0x020\fR
Returns  a  '\fI|\fR'  separated  guest  guess  list  for  the  given  word in
\fB$result\fR.
.IP \fB0x040\fR
If bit  \fB0x100\fR is also set a complete list of valid words  derivable from
the given word are inserted into the current buffer. Otherwise spell returns
.Ht $result 5
set to the derivative  word created when the given  "\fIrule\fR" is applied to
"\fIword\fR".  The rule  applied is the first  found of the given rule  letter
with a matching base ending (see
.Ht add-spell-rule 2 ).
The word need not exist as not tests for the legality of the resultant word is
used, for example in American, executing
.CS
65 spell "spelling" "V"
.CE 0
.IP
returns  "\fCspellingive\fR"  in \fB$result\fR. Returns the empty string if no
rule could be applied.
.IP \fB0x080\fR
Used with bit 0x002 to enable double word checking.
.IP \fB0x100\fR
Return information in \fB$result\fR about the given word, or the word which is
used to derive the given word. The  information  consists of the spell status,
the word as stored in the  dictionary,  and either the list of valid rules, or
the correction word. See also bit \fB0x040\fR.
.IP \fB0x200\fR
Delete the given word from a dictionary determined by bit 0x008
.PP
If none of the main functions are used (bits 0x004, 0x020, 0x040 & 0x200) then
the status flag is returned in the first  column of  \fB$result\fR.  These are
defined as follows:-
.IP \fBA\fR
Auto-replace. The word was found and flagged as erroneous. The correction word
is given in  \fB$result\fR,  either  next to the flag, or if bit  0x100 is set
then after the '\fI>\fR' character.
.IP \fBD\fR
Double word. Indicates that the first problem found is a double  occurrence of
the same word one after the other.
.IP \fBE\fR
Erroneous. The word was not found, so is Erroneous
.IP \fBN\fR
Not a word. The current word found contains no alphabetic characters so is not
deemed to be a word, e.g. 3.141593. 
.IP \fBO\fR
Okay. The word was found and is not an erroneous word.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht add-spell-rule 2 ,
.Ht delete-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht save-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht show-region 2 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 ,
.Ht spell-word 3 ,
.Hl "Locale Support" localeSupport 2 .
.ad
.FH
