.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd023.2,v 2.6 2024/10/06 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|region
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*cc\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH count-words 2
.XI count-words - "\*(C0Count the number of words in a region"
.SH NAME
count-words \- Count the number of words in a region
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B count-words
(\fB\*e\*cc\fR)
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B count-words
counts the  number of  words in the current buffer and  between the
.Ht set-mark 2
position and the current cursor  position. The command also gives  statistics on the average  characters per word, the
number of characters and the number of lines. The output appears on the message line in a format such as:-
.IP
.C "Buffer: 3959 Words (4.7), 23394 Chars, 274 Lines Region: 154 Words (5.2), 983 Chars, 10 Lines"
.PP
The
.Ht $result 5
variable is also set to the same output string.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When clear the command gives the information in the form of a
.Hl "\*(mS list" &lset 4
and does not print it to the message line; this interface is more useful to macros.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set whole buffer information is included, i.e. the first half, when clear this information is not computed or included.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set buffer region  information is included, i.e. the second half; if the current buffer does not have a region an
error is returned unless bit \fB0x08\fR is also set.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
When set no error is thrown if buffer  region  information  is requested but the buffer does not have a region, if bit
\fB0x01\fR is clear \fC-1\fR is returned for all 4 values.
.PP
When \fIn\fR is not  specified, the default value is \fC0x0f\fR,  i.e. print both whole buffer and region  information
without error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht buffer-info 2 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
