.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd095.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cXo\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cXp\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH next-window 2
.XI next-window - "\*(C0Move the cursor to the next window"
.XI previous-window - "\*(C1Move the cursor to the previous window"
.SH NAME
.Me |next-window
next-window \- Move the cursor to the next window
.br
.Me |previous-window
previous-window \- Move the cursor to the previous window
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBnext-window\fR \*(C0
.br
\fIn\fR \fBprevious-window\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B next-window
makes the next window down the current  window. A +ve argument  \fIn\fR, makes
the \fIn\fRth window from the top current, where 1 is the first window. A \-ve
argument  \fIn\fR  specifies the \fInth\fR  window from the bottom current. An
argument \fIn\fR of 0, makes the next window down current, if this is the last
window then the command fails.
.PP
.B previous-window
makes the next  window up the current  window. A +ve  argument  \fIn\fR,  this
makes the \fIn\fRth window from the bottom the current window. A \-ve argument
\fIn\fR makes the \fInth\fR  window from the top current. An argument  \fIn\fR
of zero makes the  previous  window  current, if this is the first window then
the command fails.
.PP
When no argument is supplied  then the next (or previous)  window  becomes the
current window. Wrapping occurs from bottom to top on  \fBnext-window\fR,  and
top to bottom on \fBprevious-window\fR.
.SH NOTES
The \fIn=0\fR  argument is typically used to traverse the window list from top
to  bottom,  where  the  \fCFALSE\fR  status  may be  trapped  and  used as an
indicator that end of the windows list has been reached.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht next-window-find-buffer 2 ,
.Ht next-window-find-file 2 ,
.Ht set-position 2 ,
.Ht goto-position 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
