.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd073.2,v 2.8 2023/02/02 02:05:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*ci\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH insert-file 2
.XI insert-file - "\*(C0Insert file into current buffer"
.SH NAME
insert-file \- Insert file into current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B insert-file
"\fIfile-name\fR" [ \fIupper-offset\fR \fIlower-offset\fR \fIbyte-length\fR ] \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B insert-file
inserts the named file  \fIfile-name\fR  into the current buffer at the beginning of the current line. The buffer mark
is set to the start of the insertion and the cursor is moved to the end. If the  \fIfile-name\fR is a directory then a
directory listing is inserted into the buffer.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the  command,  where the bits are defined as
follows:
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set the current  buffer's file  permissions  and  modification  time are set to those of the file being
inserted.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If this bit is set then a  partial  insert is  performed  based on  skipping  the first  (\fBupper-offset\fR  << 32) +
\fBlower-offset\fR  bytes and inserting the next  \fBbyte-length\fR  bytes. If  \fBbyte-length\fR is negative then the
same is done except  moving from the end of the file. Partial  insert is only  supported  for regular files on a local
disk.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-bfile 3 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht insert-file-name 2 ,
.Ht page-bfile 3 ,
.Ht page-file 3 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 ,
.Ht view-file 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
