.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd061.2,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:13:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|cursor
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*cf\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH goto-matching-fence 2
.XI goto-matching-fence \- "\*(C0Move the cursor to matching fence"
.SH NAME
goto-matching-fence \- Move the cursor to specified line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBgoto-matching-fence\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B goto-matching-fence
moves the cursor to the opposing  fence  character of the character  currently
under the cursor. The set of fence characters  include \fC[ ... ]\fR,
\fC{ ... }\fR, \fC( ... )\fR and \fC< ... >\fR. i.e. if the character  under the cursor
is `\fC{\fR' then  \fBgoto-matching-fence\fR  moves the cursor to the matching
closing `\fC}\fR' fence, and visa versa.
.PP
.B goto-matching-fence
can also be used to move to a matching  \fC' ... '\fR and \fC" ... "\fR fence,
but, as the  start and end fence is the same, bit  \fC0x04\fR  must be used to
indicate whether the current fence is the open or close fence, see below. 
.PP
.B goto-matching-fence
can also be used to move the cursor between the start and end of
a C/C++ \fC/* ... */\fR style comment. It can also be used to move to matching
C/C++ \fC#if\fR,  \fC#elif\fR, \fC#else\fR  and  \fC#endif\fR  constructs,
cycling  through them in the given order.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When this bit is set (the  default) the terminal  bell is rung if the matching
fence cannot be found. 
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When  this bit is set the  command  moves the  cursor to the  matching  fence,
updates the screen and pauses for 
.Ht $pause-time 5
before  moving hte cursor back again. When  omitted the cursor is simply moved
to the matching fence.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When this bit is set the fence the  cursor is  current  at is  treated  as the
close  fence so  \fBgoto-matching-fence\fR  moves  backwards  through the file
looking  for the  matching  open fence. When this bit is omitted  the fence is
assumed to be the open  fence,  this bit is only used for  \fC'\fR and \fC"\fR
type fences.
.PP
When the
.Ht fence 2m
buffer mode is enabled the matching open fence is automatically displayed when
the closing fence is typed. The length of time the matching fence is displayed
for can be controlled by the
.Ht $pause-time 5
variable.  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fence 2m ,
.Ht $pause-time 5 ,
.Ht goto-line 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
