.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd161.2,v 1.6 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window|macrodevelop
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX5\ 1\fR, \fB\*(cX5\ 2\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH create-frame 2
.XI create-frame - "\*(C0Create a new frame"
.SH NAME
create-frame \- Create a new frame
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B create-frame
\*(C0
.ad
.SH INTODUCTION
A  \fBframe\fR  in \*(mS is the screen  canvas on which all of the windows are
attached.  \*(mS  allows  the  creation  of new  frames,  creating a new blank
canvas, which may be populated with new windows. Frames may be swapped and the
window  layout for a given  frame is  preserved  until the frame is  displayed
again. There are two types of frame:
.IP Internal
An internal  frame uses the same display window (or console)  hiding any other
frames. On creation, any existing  frame is hidden and a new frame blank takes
its place. Internal frames are supported on all platforms.
.IP External
An external  frame  creates a new display  window  allowing  both the original
frame and new frame to be visible in different  windows.  External  frames are
only available on windowing platforms such as X-Windows and Microsoft Windows.
External frames may include internal frames which are paged.
.LP
This is shown in the following diagram:-
.CS
         +-----------------+           +-----------------+
         |                 +-+         |                 +-+
         |                 | +-+       |                 | |
         |                 | | |       |                 | |
         |                 | | |       |                 | |
         +-+---------------+ | |       +-+---------------+ |
           +-+---------------+ |         +-----------------+
             +-----------------+

          Three Internal Frames        External Frame with
                                       two internal frames
.CE
The user may move to the next frame using
.Ht next-frame 2
which swaps the current frame for the next frame. External  frames may also be
accessed via the window manager by selecting the window.
.PP
A frame may be subsequently deleted with
.Ht delete-frame 2 .
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate-frame\fR  creates a new frame for the current \*(mS session, the new
frame is assigned a unique identity
.Ht $frame-id 5
which exists for the life of the frame.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR  defines  the type of frame to be  created. An
argument of \fC2\fR  creates an external  frame, an internal  frame is created
with an argument of \fC1\fR. Where no argument is specified an external  frame
is created by default on systems  which  support  them  otherwise  an internal
frame is created.
.SH NOTES
\*(mS is not  multi-threaded  and only one frame may be active at any one time
(the  complexity  of being able to run a command in one frame while editing in
another  would rapidly lead it away from the 'Micro'  status).  Therefore if a
command  is left  active  (such as a search)  in one  frame  and the  focus is
changed to another  frame the input is \fIsent\fR to the frame with the active
command and the message \fC[NOT  FOCUS]\fR  appears in the message-line of the
frame with the focus.
.PP
\fBcreate-frame\fR  is useful in macros  that rely on a window  layout, as the
macro can preserve the users current  window layout by creating a new internal
frame in which to run.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht delete-frame 2 ,
.Ht next-frame 2 ,
.Ht $frame-id 5 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
