.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd080.2,v 2.10 2009/08/29 17:13:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|paragraph|delete
.so me.tni
.TH kill-paragraph 2
.XI kill-paragraph - "Delete a paragraph"
.SH NAME
kill-paragraph \- Delete a paragraph
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBkill-paragraph\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kill-paragraph
deletes the next \fIn\fR  paragraphs  from the current  cursor  position,  the
paragraphs  that are killed are added to the kill  buffer. If the cursor is in
the middle of a paragraph  then the text from the current  cursor  position to
the end (or start, depending on direction) of the paragraph is deleted.
.PP
If \fIn\fR is positive  then the kill  direction  is  forwards,  if \fIn\fR is
negative  then the kill  direction is  backwards. If \fIn\fR is \fC0\fR (zero)
the command simply returns. The default value for \fIn\fR is \fC+1\fR.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The  following  errors can be  generated,  in each case the command  returns a
FALSE status:
.IP "\fB[end of buffer]\fR"
The  positive  argument  \fIn\fR  is  greater  than the  number  of  remaining
paragraphs, all of the remaining paragraphs to the end of the buffer are still
removed.
.IP "\fB[top of buffer]\fR"
The  negative  argument  \fIn\fR  is  greater  than  the  number  of  previous
paragraphs, all of the previous  paragraphs to the top of the buffer are still
removed.
.SH NOTES
A paragraph is terminated by a blank line. All text residing between two blank
lines is considered to be a paragraph - regardless of the text layout.
.SH HISTORY
The behavior of
.B kill-paragraph
was  modified in November  2004 after which the numeric  argument  \fIn\fR was
interpreted  to control  the number and  direction  of  paragraphs  to delete.
Previous  releases  interpreted  a negative  value as a control to disable the
deleted  text from  entering  the kill  buffer. If the  existing  behavior  is
required then
.Ht kill-region 2
with a negative argument should be used to delete a region of marked text,
.Ht forward-paragraph 2
and
.Ht backward-paragraph 2
may be used to move to the appropriate kill position.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht backward-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht forward-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
.Ht undo 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 .
.ad
.FH
