.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd083.2,v 2.8 2004-02-03 19:59:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|help|buffer
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cb\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH list-buffers 2
.XI list-buffers - "\*(C0List all buffers and show their status"
.SH NAME
list-buffers \- List all buffers and show their status
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBlist-buffers\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B list-buffers
splits the current  window and in one half brings up a list of all the buffers
currently  existing in the editor. The active  modes,  change flag, and active
flag for each buffer is displayed. (The change flag is a \fB*\fR  character if
the buffer has been  changed  and not  written  out. The active flag is not an
\fB@\fR if the file had been  specified on the command  line, but has not been
read in yet since nothing has switched to that buffer.)
.PP
The  numerical  argument  \fIn\fR  is a  bitwise  flag  which  determines  the
information that is displayed by the command, it is interpreted follows:-
.PP
\fC\ \ 1\fR \- The default, when the bit is set displays visible buffers only.
When clear displays both visible and
.Hl hidden hide 2m
buffers.
.br
\fC\ \ 2\fR \- When set shows buffer size  information,  including  file size,
memory size and undo size in bytes. 
.PP
The buffer list has some special  command keys  associated with it which allow
the state of the  buffers  to be edited  from the buffer  list, the  editing
allows  buffers  to be killed and saved to disk. The key codes are  defined as
follows:-
.IP "\fB1\fR - Switch to buffer"
Switch to that buffer and make it the only buffer.
.IP "\fB2\fR - Move to buffer"
Switch the buffer list window to that buffer.
.IP "\fBD\fR - delete buffer"
Flag buffer for  deletion. A buffer  scheduled  for  deletion is marked with a
\'\fBD\fR'  in first  column.  The delete  status is enacted by the  '\fBX\fR'
command, or may be removed with the '\fBU\fR' command.
.IP "\fBS\fR - save buffer"
Flag  buffer  for  saving. A buffer  scheduled  from  saving is marked  with a
\'\fBS\fR'  in the second  column. Note that a buffer may be marked for saving
and deletion, the save operation is performed before the delete.
.IP "\fBU\fR - unmark buffer"
Unmark the '\fBD\fR' and '\fBS\fR' flags on current line.
.IP "\fBX\fR - execute"
Execute all the '\fBD\fR' and '\fBS\fR' flags currently set. The \fBS\fRave is
enacted first.
.LP
For all but '\fBX\fR', the buffer  selected is the buffer noted on the current
cursor line. These keys are not remappable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht list-variables 2 ,
.Ht list-commands 2 ,
.Ht split-window-horizontally 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
