.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd127.2,v 2.6 2009/08/29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX4\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH next-window-find-file 2
.XI next-window-find-file - "\*(C0Split the current window and find file"
.SH NAME
next-window-find-file \- Split the current window and find file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B next-window-find-file
"\fIfile\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B next-window-find-file
splits the  current  window into two near equal  windows,  and loads the given
\fIfile\fR into the current window. It is effectively a
.Ht split-window-vertically 2
command followed by a
.Ht find-file 2 .
.PP
When there is  insufficient  space in the current window to perform the split,
then the  current  window is  replaced.  The  requested  \fIfile\fR  is always
displayed,  if the file  does not  already  exist it is  effectively  created
within  \*(mS  (although  it will  not  exist  on the  disk  until a save
operation is performed).
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR can be used to modify the default  behaviour of
the command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If the file does not exist and this bit is not set the  command  fails at this
point.  If the file  does not  exist  and this bit is set (or no  argument  is
specified  as the  default  argument  is \fC1\fR)  then a new empty  buffer is
created with the given file name, saving the buffer subsequently creates a new
file.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht binary 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBbinary\fR  mode for more  information on editing
binary data files.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht crypt 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBcrypt\fR  mode for more  information  on editing
encrypted files.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht rbin 2m
mode enabled. See help on \fBrbin\fR  mode for more  information  on efficient
editing of binary data files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht next-window-find-buffer 2 ,
.Ht split-window-vertically 2 ,
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht crypt 2m ,
.Ht rbin 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
