.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd091.2,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:27:49 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|buffer
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cXx\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cXb\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH next-buffer 2
.XI next-buffer - "\*(C0Switch to the next buffer"
.XI find-buffer - "\*(C1Switch to a named buffer"
.SH NAME
.Me |next-buffer
next-buffer \- Switch to the next buffer
.br
.Me |find-buffer
find-buffer \- Switch to the next buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBnext-buffer\fR \*(C0
.br
.I n
.B find-buffer
"\fIbuffer-name\fR" \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B next-buffer
switches  to the  \fIn\fRth  next  buffer in the  buffer  list in the  current
window,  the  default  \fIn\fR is  \fC1\fR,  if \fIn\fR is  negative  then the
\fC0-\fR\fIn\fRth  previous buffer is selected. If \fC0\fR or a number greater
than the number of buffers is specified then the command fails.
.PP
.B find-buffer
switches to buffer  "\fIbuffer-name\fR"  in the current  window. If the buffer
does not exist and a zero argument \fIn\fR is supplied then the command fails.
If the buffer  does not exist but no  argument  or a +ve  argument  \fIn\fR is
specified  then a new  buffer is  created,  at which  point the  file-hook  is
evaluated.
.PP
If a -ve argument \fIn\fR is given to  \fBfind-buffer\fR  then the buffer will
be hidden. Any window displaying  "\fIbuffer-name\fR" will find another buffer
to display. This functionality is often used with the
.Ht hide 2m
buffer mode.
.PP
If the current buffer has an \fI$buffer-ehook\fR command set then this command
is  executed  before  the new buffer is  switched  in. If the new buffer has a
$\fIbuffer-bhook\fR  command set then this  command is automatically  executed
after the new buffer is switched in but before control returns to the user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht next-window-find-buffer 2 ,
.Ht hide 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
