.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2mod019.2,v 2.6 2004-01-05 00:19:23 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH autosv 2m
.XI autosv - "Automatic file save"
.SH NAME
autosv \- Automatic file save
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "autosv Mode"
.sp
\fBa\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
When this mode is enabled when the buffer is changed it will be  automatically
saved to a temporary file
.Ht $auto-time 5
later.
.PP
Automatic saving for a buffer will not occur if
.IP
The buffer  name  starts  with a '*', this is  considered  a temporary  system
buffer.
.IP
.Ht $auto-time 5
is set to 0, this disables auto-saving for all buffers.
.IP
The buffer does not a file name from which to generate a temporary  file name.
When this occurs the error message:
.IP
.C "[Auto-writeout failure for buffer xxxxx]"
.IP
\*(mE can not write to the generated temporary file name. When this occurs the
error message:
.IP
.C "[Auto-writeout failure for file xxxxx#]"
.PP
On unlimited  length file name systems  (\s-1UNIX\s0),  the temporary file
naming convention used for file \fCxxxxx\fR:
.IP
.C "xxxxx -> xxxxx#"
.LP
On  systems  with  an  \fCxxxxxxxx.yyy\fR  file  name  (\s-1DOS\s0  etc),  the
following file naming convention is used:
.IP
.nf
.C "xxxxxxxx     -> xxxxxxxx.###"
.C "xxxxxxxx.y   -> xxxxxxxx.y##"
.C "xxxxxxxx.yy  -> xxxxxxxx.yy#"
.C "xxxxxxxx.yyy -> xxxxxxxx.yy#"
.fi
.SH NOTES
This mode \s-1MUST\s0 be enabled globally when the file is loaded for the file
style to be correctly detected.
.PP
It is \fBstrongly advised\fR that \s-1autosv\s0 mode is permanently enabled.
.PP
Auto-save files of URL files (i.e.  "\fCftp://...\fR" and  "\fChttp://...\fR")
are written to the system's temporary  directory. This avoids potentially slow
auto-saves. This can however lead to recovery problems as the buffer name must
be used to avoid  auto-saving  conflict  with other buffers with the same base
file name but different paths.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - ,
.Ht $auto-time 5 ,
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht ftp 3 .
.ad
.FH
