.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2mod000.2,v 2.8 2009/10/03 16:35:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH auto 2m
.XI auto - "Automatic source file line type detection"
.SH NAME
auto \- Automatic source file line type detection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "auto Mode"
.sp
\fBA\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
When this mode is enabled the line style of the source  file, with  respect to
\fCCR/LF/CTRL-Z\fR  characters,  are  automatically  detected and the file (if
saved)  is  written  out in the  same  style  as it was read in. This  mode is
designed to solve the problems of \s-1MS-DOS\s0 which utilize a '\fB\\r\\n\fR'
with  every  new  line and a  \fBctrl-Z\fR  as a file  terminator,  conversely
\s-1UNIX\s0 utilizes only '\fB\\n\fR' as a line terminator.
.PP
\fBauto\fR  mode therefore  allows files to be edited across file system types
without corrupting the line style of the native platform.
.PP
At load time, if \fBauto\fR detects CR/LF style line feeds then it enables the
buffer modes
.Ht cr 2m 
and 
.Ht lf 2m ;
if a CTRL-Z is found at the end of the file then mode
.Ht ctrlz 2m
is enabled. Otherwise these modes are cleared.
.PP
At write time, if \fBauto\fR mode is enabled then the file is written out is a
style determined by modes \fBcr\fR,  \fBlf\fR and \fBctrlz\fR. For example, if
\fBcr\fR  and \fBlf\fR  were enabled and  \fBctrlz\fR  disabled  then the file
would be  written  out with new  lines as  '\fB\\r\\n\fR'  and with no  ending
ctrl-z. 
.PP
If auto is not  enabled  then  the  file is  written  out in the  style of the
current  platform,  regardless  of the  current  settings  on modes  \fBcr\fR,
\fBlf\fR and \fBctrlz\fR.
.SH SUMMARY
The operation on the modes may be summarized as follows:-
.SS "UNIX Systems"
.BS
\fBauto Enabled\fR \s-1UNIX\s0 and \s-1MS-DOS\s0 files may be edited normally,
edits are saved in the format read by the system.
.BU
\fBauto  Disabled\fR  \s-1UNIX\s0 files may be edited normally, files saved as
\s-1UNIX\s0 files. \s-1MS-DOS\s0 files show a \fC^M\fR character at the end of
each line (editing is not advised if the purity of the  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 is to be
maintained), any edits are written back as displayed on the screen.
.BE 0
.SS "MS-DOS Systems"
.BS
\fBauto Enabled\fR \s-1UNIX\s0 and \s-1MS-DOS\s0 files may be edited normally,
edits are saved in the format read by the system.
.BU
\fBauto  Disabled\fR  on  reading  all  files  are  read  and  editing  may be
undertaken   normally.  On  writing,   '\fB\\r\fR's  and  a  \fBctrl-Z\fR  are
automatically  added. The act of reading a \s-1UNIX\s0  file and re-writing it
translates it to an \s-1MS-DOS\s0 file.
.BE 0
.SH NOTES
This mode \s-1MUST\s0 be enabled globally when the file is loaded for the file
style to be correctly detected.
.PP
It is \fBstrongly advised\fR that \s-1auto\s0 mode is permanently enabled.
.PP
Windows  systems  tend to use a  '\fB\\r\\n\fR'  style  line  feed but with no
trailing ctrl-z.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - ,
.Ht global-mode 2 ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht cr 2m ,
.Ht lf 2m ,
.Ht ctrlz 2m ,
.Ht $buffer-fmod 5 .
.ad
.FH
