.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2mod032.2,v 1.6 2005-01-01 15:02:12 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH fence 2m
.XI fence - "Auto fence matching mode"
.SH NAME
fence \- Auto fence matching mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fence Mode"
.sp
\fBf\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fence
mode can be used to enable or disable  the  automatic  displaying  of and open
fence when the corresponding  closing fence is typed. When the mode is enabled
and the closing fence (\'\fC)\fR'  '\fC]\fR' or '\fC}\fR') is typed the cursor
is temporarily  move to the position of the opening fence. The duration of the
move can be controlled by the
.Ht $pause-time 5
variable; any user input interrupts the display.
.PP
If the buffer is configured to use a \fIC\fR style auto
.Ht indent 2 ,
the search  algorithm  used is '\fIC\fR'  aware and if a matching fence is not
found then the bell is rung as a warning.  Otherwise  any closing  fence which
cannot be matched is ignored.
.PP
The cursor can be moved to the matching fence using the
.Ht goto-matching-fence 2
command. 
.SH NOTES
The following are considered closing fences:
.CS
}  )  ] > */ #endif
.CE
These are match with the following opening fences respectively:
.CS
{  (  [ < /* #if
.CE
In \*(mS the use of fence mode has been depreciated. Matching fence hilighting
has been  implemented  as a macro and configured via the Platform page of
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - ,
.Ht $pause-time 5 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht goto-matching-fence 2 ,
.Ht indent 2 .
.ad
.FH
