.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2mod003.2,v 2.7 2023/02/21 11:12:28 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH crypt 2m
.XI crypt - "Encrypted file mode"
.SH NAME
crypt \- Encrypted file mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "crypt Mode"
.sp
\fBY\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crypt
mode enables  encrypted  files to be loaded and saved for security  purposes. The key can be set at any time using the
command
.Ht set-encryption-key 2 .
Warning, take care if setting this as a global mode, it can have side-effects.
.PP
The  encryption  algorithm  uses AES in a  chained  block  form and 256 bit key, at time of  writing  this  should  be
considered  as secure as the  password  used. When you write out text, if  \fCcrypt\fR  mode is active and there is no
encryption key, \*(mS will ask:
.IP
.C "<file-name> password:"
.LP
Type in a word or phrase of at least five and up to 128  characters for the encryption to use. If you look at the file
which is then written out, it should be indistinguishable to random data, also if you save the file again, without any
changes to the unencrypted data, the content be completely different. To read such a file later, use
.Ht find-cfile 3
to load \fIciphertext\fR files, you will be asked for the password before the file is read.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht find-cfile 3 ,
.Ht global-mode 2 ,
.Ht set-encryption-key 2 ,
.Hr AES 2 .
.ad
.FH
