.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2mod031.2,v 2.7 2025/03/25 21:19:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH xlate 2m
.XI xlate - "Translated buffer editor mode"
.SH NAME
xlate \- Translated buffer editor mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xlate Mode"
.sp
\fBX\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xlate
mode is  enabled  when a buffer needs to be translated before saving. The mode works in conjunction with variable
.Ht $buffer-xlate 5
which defines the translation required.
.PP
The mode is typically enabled by the
.Ht translate-buffer 2
command which is used to convert a file loaded using \fBrbin\fR mode into a more editable form.
.PP
See documentation on variable
.Ht $buffer-xlate 5
for a better understanding of the types of translation preformed.
.SH NOTES
\fBxlate\fR,  \fBrbin\fR and  \fBbinary\fR  modes are mutually  exclusive, i.e. they should not be enabled at the same
time.
.PP
When a file writing command is called on a buffer with \fBxlate\fR mode enabled, the command will first execute its
normal validity checks, if these succeed the command will internally translate the buffer, as defined by
\fB$buffer-xlate\fR, creating a temporary second copy of the buffer, it is this version that is then written out and
then freed. This leaves the original buffer unchanged, although modes like
.Ht edit 2m
will have been altered as normal.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - ,
.Ht translate-buffer 2 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht $buffer-xlate 5 ,
.Ht rbin 2m .
.ad
.FH
