.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Aug 20 22:34:10 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar001.2,v 2.11 2009/08/29 17:13:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH Installation 1
.XI Installation - "Installation details for MicroEmacs"
.SH "INSTALLATION"
This page describes introductory notes for the installation and setup of \*(mE.
.SS "Quick Install"
The quickest way to install MicroEmacs for testing without reading the rest of
this document is to:-
.BS
Create a new directory i.e. \fCjasspa\fR.
.BU
Unpack the macros archive into this directory.
.BU
Unpack the executable into this directory.
.BU
Run \fCme\fR from this directory.
.BE
On  starting,  you  will be  prompted  for a  default  directory,  accept  the
defaults. Use the mouse and configure the user from the menu bar:-
.CS
Tools -> User Setup
.CE
This  allows the user and screen  settings  to be  altered. On  becoming  more
accustomed to the editor then a fuller installation may be performed.
.IP "\fBGetting Help\fR"
See
.Hl "Contact Information" Contact -
for full contact information. A mail archive exists at:-
.RS
.CS
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/jasspa/
.CE
If you wish to participate in the list then you must first register by sending
an empty mail message body to:-
.CS
jasspa-subscribe@yahoogroups.com
.CE
You will then be able to mail any questions  into the group.  Registration  is
required in order to prevent \fIspam\fR mailings from entering into the lists.
.RE
.SS "Distribution"
MicroEmacs is distributed in the following files:-
.BP "Complete Installations"
The  Microsoft  95/98/NT/2K/XP,  Solaris,  HP-UX,  Linux and the more  popular
platforms may be installed  using a package and do not require the  components
specified in later sections as these are all bundled  together (these packages
do not include spelling).
.sp
.na
.nf
\fCjasspa-me-YYYYMMDD-1.i386.rpm\fR \- Linux RedHat 9.x package.
\fCjasspa-me-YYYYMMDD-1.src.rpm\fR \- Linux RedHat 9.x source package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-hpux-pa-10.20-YYYYMMDD.depot.gz\fR \- HP-UX 10 package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-hpux-pa-11.00-YYYYMMDD.depot.gz\fR \- HP-UX 11 package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-ms-win32-2004030.zip\fR  \- 95/98/NT/2K/XP Install Shield
\fCjasspa-mepkg-sun-i386-58-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Sun 2.8(i386) package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-sun-i386-59-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Sun 2.9(i386) package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-sun-sparc-56-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Sun 2.6(Sparc) package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-sun-sparc-58-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Sun 2.8(Sparc) package.
\fCjasspa-mepkg-sun-sparc-59-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Sun 2.9(Sparc) package.
.fi
.ad
.BP "Executable Source Code"
The source code release for \*(mE  contains  makefiles  (\fC*.mak\fR)  for all
supported platforms. Microsoft  '95/'98/NT/2K/XP  makefiles contain options at
the top of the makefile to enable/disable console and URL support.
.sp 1
.na
.nf
\fCjasspa-mesrc-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Source code for all platforms
\fCjasspa-mesrc-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR \- Source code
.fi
.ad
.BP "Executable Images"
.na
.nf
\fCjasspa-me-cygwin-YYYYMMDD.exe.gz\fR \- Cygwin Executable (X-Windows)
\fCjasspa-me-hpux-pa-10.20-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Hewlett Packard HP-UX 10 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-hpux-pa-11.00-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Hewlett Packard HP-UX 11 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-ibm-aix-4-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- IBM's AIX 4.3 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-linux-i386-2.4-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Linux 2.2.x/2.4.x Executable
\fCjasspa-me-linux-i386-2.6-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Linux 2.6.x Executable
\fCjasspa-me-ms-win32-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Windows 32' (95/98/NT/2K/XP) Executable
\fCjasspa-me-ms-win32s-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Windows win32s (Win3.1/3.11) Executable
\fCjasspa-me-msdos-djgpp1-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- DOS Executable (DJGPP v1.x)
\fCjasspa-me-msdos-djgpp2-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- DOS Executable (DJGPP v2.x)
\fCjasspa-me-openbsd-i386-3.4-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Open BSD 3.4 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-sgi-irix-6-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Silicon Graphics Irix 6 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-sun-i386-58-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Sun Solaris 2.8 Intel Platform Executable
\fCjasspa-me-sun-i386-59-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Sun Solaris 2.9 Intel Platform Executable
\fCjasspa-me-sun-sparc-56-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Sun OS 5.5 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-sun-sparc-58-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Sun OS 5.8 Executable
\fCjasspa-me-sun-sparc-59-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Sun OS 5.9 Executable
\fCjasspa-mec-apple-darwin-6.6-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR \- Apple console Executable
\fCjasspa-mec-cygwin-YYYYMMDD.exe.gz\fR \- Cygwin Executable (Console)
.fi
.ad
.IP "\fBHelp File Images\fR (all platforms)"
.na
.nf
\fCjasspa-mewinhlp-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Windows Help file
\fCjasspa-mehtm-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR  \- HTML Help files for 8.3 file systems (.htm)
\fCjasspa-mehtml-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR \- HTML Help files (.html)
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBMacro File Images\fR (all platforms)"
.na
.nf
\fCjasspa-memacros-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR \- Macro files
\fCjasspa-memacros-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Macro files
.sp 1
\fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR \- Complete install tree + help
\fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR \- Complete install tree + help
.fi
.ad
.IP "\fBSpelling Dictionaries\fR (all platforms)"
One of the following base  dictionaries is required for spelling. The extended
dictionaries  require  the  base  dictionary  and are  recommended  for a more
comprehensive spelling list. Other languages are supported.
.IP
.na
.nf
\fCls_dede.zip\fR \- German rules and base + extended dictionary.
\fCls_engb.zip\fR \- British rules and base + extended dictionary.
\fCls_enus.zip\fR \- American rules and base + extended dictionary.
\fCls_eses.zip\fR \- Spanish rules and dictionary.
\fCls_frfr.zip\fR \- French rules and dictionary.
\fCls_itit.zip\fR \- Italian rules and dictionary
\fCls_plpl.zip\fR \- Polish rules and dictionary.
\fCls_ptpt.zip\fR \- Portuguese rules and dictionary.
\fCls_ruye.zip\fR \- Russian YE rules and dictionary.
\fCls_ruyo.zip\fR \- Russian YO rules and dictionary.
.sp 1
\fCls_dede.tar.gz\fR \- German rules and base + extended dictionary.
\fCls_engb.tar.gz\fR \- British rules and base + extended dictionary.
\fCls_enus.tar.gz\fR \- American rules and base + extended dictionary.
\fCls_eses.tar.gz\fR \- Spanish rules and dictionary.
\fCls_frfr.tar.gz\fR \- French rules and dictionary.
\fCls_itit.tar.gz\fR \- Italian rules and dictionary
\fCls_plpl.tar.gz\fR \- Polish rules and dictionary.
\fCls_ptpt.tar.gz\fR \- Portuguese rules and dictionary.
\fCls_ruye.tar.gz\fR \- Russian YE rules and dictionary.
\fCls_ruyo.tar.gz\fR \- Russian YO rules and dictionary.
.fi
.ad
.IP
.B NOTE:
The binary  versions of the executables  held on the site include the platform
name as part of the  executable  name i.e.  \fBme\fR  for  \fCDOS\fR is called
\fBmedos.exe\fR.  On  installing  the  binaries  onto the target  machine, you
should  rename  the  executable  to  \fBme\fR  or  \fBme.exe\fR,  whatever  is
appropriate.  The  ONLY  exception  to  this  rule  is the  Microsoft  Windows
executable where \fBmewin32.exe\fR should be renamed to \fBme32.exe\fR.
Our reason for this naming is to allow the  executables  to be  unpacked in the
same directory and not be confused with each other.
.SS "Installation Directories"
The suggested installation structure for all platforms is defined as:-
.CS
          jasspa
          / | \\
         /  |  \\
        /   |   \\
 spelling macros company
.CE
This  directory   structure  is  suggested  to  facilitate   upgrades  in  the
future  and  to  keep  user  data  separate  from  the  system  macros.  \*(mS
understands this directory structure.
.PP
The directory structures are defined as:
.IP "\fBmacros\fR"
The standard macro distribution, as supplied by JASSPA.
.IP "\fBspelling\fR"
Spelling dictionaries.
.IP "\fBcompany\fR"
Company  wide local  definitions  for the local  site. This  directory  may be
omitted if not applicable.  Header templates  (\fC.etf\fR are typically copied
from the \fCmacro\fR directory to the \fCcompany\fR directory and modified for
the local site.
.LP
The  search  order is  defined  as  \fCroot\fR,  \fCcompany\fR,  \fCmacros\fR,
\fCspelling\fR.
.SS "UNIX Installation (System Wide)"
A system wide  installation  on  \s-1UNIX\s0  for  multiple  users  adheres to
conventional package installation methods.
.PP
.B "Distribution Components Required:"
.br
\fCjasspa-me-\fR\fI<unix>\fR\fC-YYYYMMDD.gz\fR
.br
\fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.gz\fR
.br
\fCjasspa-mehtml-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR (optional)
.PP
.B "Installation:"
.br
It is recommended  that the macro files are placed in a standard shared system
directory. The standard directory locations searched by \*(mS are defined on a
per-platform basis, only one of the directory locates is selected, as follows:
.LP
.ne6
.CS 0
                            HP-UX     SunOS      AIX      Cygwin
                       IRIX     UnixWare   ***BSD    Linux      NeXT
/opt/jasspa:             y    y    y    y    y    y    n    n    n
/usr/share/jasspa:       y    y    y    y    y    y    y    n    n
/usr/local/jasspa:       y    y    y    y    y    y    y    y    y
/usr/local/share/jasspa: n    n    n    n    y    n    n    n    n
.CE 0
.BS
Create the directory \fC/usr/local/jasspa\fR.
.BU
Unpack  and   install   the   \fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR   into  this
directory.
.BU
If spelling  dictionaries  are required then place them in the  \fIspelling\fR
sub-directory  created when  \fImetree\fR was unpacked. Unpack and install the
\fCspelling\fR into this directory.
.BU
If the standard icons are required for Gnome, KDE or some other window manager
then  create the  sub-directory  \fC/usr/local/jasspa/icons\fR  and unpack and
install the icons into the new directory.
.BU
Unpack (or build) the executable and place in "\fC/usr/local/bin\fR"
.BE
The  executable  may now be run by all users. If the  macros  are  placed in a
non-standard directory location then the environment variable
.Ht MEINSTALLPATH 5
to define the root jasspa tree.
.PP
For
.Hr csh 1
users  execute a "\fCrehash\fR"  command and then
.Ht me 1
can be executed from the command line.
.PP
By default a X-Windows  terminal is displayed, ensure that  \fC$DISPLAY\fR and
\fC$TERM\fR  are correctly  configured. To execute a terminal  emulation  then
execute  \fBme\fR  with the \fC\-n\fR  option i.e. "\fCme\  \-n\fR". Note that
this is not required if you are using a \fCvt100\fR emulation.
.PP
When \*(mS is executed the local directory  \fC~/.jasspa\fR is created for the
user  settings.  The  user  home  directory  may be  changed  by  setting  the
environment variable
.Ht $MEPATH 5 .
.SS "UNIX Installation (Single User)"
Where the user is not  permitted  to  install  3rd party  applications  in the
system directories then \*(mS may be installed locally as follows:-
.BS
Create the directory \fC~/.jasspa\fR.
.BU
Unpack  and   install   the   \fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz\fR   into  this
directory.
.BU
If spelling  dictionaries  are required then place them in the  \fIspelling\fR
sub-directory  created when  \fImetree\fR was unpacked. Unpack and install the
\fCspelling\fR into this directory.
.BU
If the standard icons are required for Gnome, KDE or some other window manager
then  create the  sub-directory  \fC~/.jasspa/icons\fR  and unpack and
install the icons into the new directory.
.BU
The user files will be placed in the \fC~/.jasspa\fR  directory by default. To
keep the user macros separate then the directory  \fC~/.jasspa/$LOGNAME\fR may
be created and will identified as the users home directory.
.BU
Unpack (or build) the executable and place in "\fC~/bin\fR"
.BE
\*(mS may be executed after it has been re-hashed (depending on the shell).
.SS "DOS Installation"
\s-1MS-DOS\s0  has  no  concept  of a  standard  installation  directory.  The
location  of the \*(mS  macros  is  generally  determined  from the  directory
location of the executable.
.PP
.B Executable:
.br
Compiled with DJGPP V1.0
.IP "Distribution components required:"
\fCjasspa-me-msdos-djgpp1-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR
.br
\fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.zip\fR
.sp 1
\fCmewinhlp.zip\fR if you are using windows 3.1/3.11
.IP "Recommended installed components:"
\fCgrep\fR \- Version of grep (djgpp recommended)
.br
\fCmake\fR \- Version of make (djgpp recommended)
.br
\fCdiff\fR \- Version of diff (djgpp recommended)
.PP
.B "Installation:"
.br
This installation relies on the executable position.
.BS
Create the directory \fCc:\\jasspa\fR (or other location)
.BU
Unpack  and   install   the   \fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR   into  this
directory.
.BU
If spelling  dictionaries  are required then place them in the  \fIspelling\fR
sub-directory  created when  \fImetree\fR was unpacked. Unpack and install the
\fCspelling\fR into this directory.
.BU
Unzip   the   executable   and  place  it  in  the   jasspa   root   directory
\fCc:\\jasspa\fR.
.BU
Edit "\fCc:\\autoexec.bat\fR" and add the following lines:-
.BE
.CS 0
    SET PATH=%PATH%;c:\\jasspa
.CE 0
.BS
Reboot the system.
.BU
MicroEmacs may be run from the command line using \fBme\fR.
.BE
.B "Graphics Cards:"
.br
MicroEmacs may be configured to the text modes of your graphics card. Refer to
you graphics card DOS text modes to identify the text modes  supported by your
monitor.  The  text  mode  number  may  be  entered   into  the  user  monitor
configuration, defined in \fBTools\fR -> \fBUser Setup\fR.
.IP "Running DOS Version From Windows (3.x)"
The MS-DOS version of MicroEmacs may be executed from a \fB.pif\fR  file. Use the
pif editor to create a new \fB.pif\fR  file to launch  MicroEmacs. The size of
the DOS window may be configured  from the command line, set the terminal size
using one of the following command lines:-
.RS
.CS
    me -c -v$TERM=E80x50        - 80 x 50 window
    me -c -v$TERM=E80x25        - 80 x 25 window.
.CE
We  usually  add the \fC\-c\fR option so that  MicroEmacs  is  executed  with
history information. This may be omitted if required.
.RE
.SS "Microsoft Windows 3.1/3.11"
.B "Executable:"
.br
Compiled with Microsoft Developer 2.0
.PP
.B "Helper DLL:"
.br
Under  \fBWin32s\fR  a helper  \s-1DLL\s0  \fBmethnk16.dll\fR  is  required to
perform the
.Ht pipe-shell-command 2
in   a   synchronous    manner.   This   should   be   installed    into   the
\fCC:\\WINDOWS\\SHELL\fR  directory. This (rather inelegantly) gets around the
problems of spawning a process under \fBwin32s\fR due to a number of Microsoft
bugs in the operating  system. Note: that on a spawn  operation a \fCMS-DOS\fR
window is  visible,  this is due to the  nature of the  command  shell on this
platform which has a tendency to prompt the user at every opportunity, hence a
certain amount of interaction (which is out of our control) is necessary.
.PP
The  helper   \s-1DLL\s0  is  compiled  with  a  16-bit  Windows  compiler  \-
\s-1MSVC\s0 1.5.
.PP
.B "Distribution components required:"
.IP
\fCjasspa-me-ms-win32s-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR
.br
\fCjasspa-metree-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR
.br
\fCjasspa-mewinhlp-YYYYMMDD.zip\fR
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.zip\fR
.PP
.B "Recommended installed components:"
.IP
\fC4dos\fR \- command shell (giving \fIstderr\fR redirection)
.br
\fCgrep\fR \- Version of grep (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCdiff\fR \- Version of diff (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCmake\fR \- use nmake or GNU port of make.
.IP
If\fBwin32s\fR is a requirement on this platform, typically taken from
.B pw1118.exe
which freely available on the Internet.
.PP
.B "Installation:"
.br
This version of Windows does not have a \fIinstall\fR directory as '95/'98 and
it is expected that the  \fCMS-DOS\fR  version will coexist. No \fIInstall\fR
\fIShield\fR  installation  is  provided.  Install  in a  directory  structure
similar to  \fCMS-DOS\fR.  Install  the helper \s-1DLL\s0  \fBmethnk16.dll\fR  in the
\fCC:\\WINDOWS\\SHELL\fR directory. Create a
.Ht me32.ini 8
file in the \fCC:\\WINDOWS\fR  directory to identify the location of the \*(mE
components, this much the same as the '95/'98 file, change the directory paths
to suite the install base.
.PP
.B "Support Status:"
.br
The  \fBwin32s\fR  release  has not been  used  with  vengeance,  although  no
specific problems have been reported with this release.
.SS "Windows 95/98/NT/2K/XP"
.B Executable:
.IP
Compiled with Microsoft Developer 6.x
.LP
.B "Install Shield"
.IP
An \fBInstall Shield\fR version of \*(mS is available which includes all
of the distribution components.
.LP
.B "Distribution components required:"
.IP
\fCjasspa-mepkg-ms-win32-2004030.zip\fR
.LP
.B "Recommended installed components:"
.IP
\fCgrep\fR \- Version of grep (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCdiff\fR \- Version of diff (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCmake\fR \- use nmake or GNU port of make.
.IP
A good source of \s-1UNIX\s0 native tools is
.IP
.C http://unxutils.sourceforge.net/
\- for native windows grep, diff, zip etc.
.br
.C http://www.cygwin.com
\- for a shell environment.
.LP
.B "Installation:"
.BS
Create the directory
.\"
"\fCc:\\Program\ Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\fR" (or other location)
.BU
Create  the  sub-directory
.\"
\fCc:\\Program\ Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\\macros\fR.
.\"
Unpack  and  install  the  \fCmemacros.zip\fR  into this  directory
.BU
If   spelling   dictionaries   are   required   then   create  the   directory
.\"
\fCc:\\Program\ Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\\spelling\fR.
.\"
Unpack and install the \fCspelling\fR into this directory.
.BU
Unzip the executable components into
.\"
"\fCC:\\Program Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\fR"
.BU
Create a short cut to MicroEmacs for the Desktop
.sp
Right click on the desk top
.sp
\fC=> New\fR
.br
\fC=> Short\fR
.br
\fC=> Command Line: "c:\\Program Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\\me.exe \-c"\fR
.br
\fC=> Short Cut Name: "MicroEmacs"\fR
.sp
MicroEmacs may be executed from the shortcut.
.BE
.B "Open Actions"
Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT provide short cut actions, assigning an open action
to a file. The short  cuts may be  installed  from the  \fBInstall  Shield\fR
installation,  but may  alternatively  be  explicitly  defined by editing  the
registry file with
.Hr regedit 1 .
.PP
A file open  action in the  registry is bound to the file file  extension,  to
bind a file  extension  \fI.foo\fR to the editor then the  following  registry
entries should be defined:-
.CS
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\.foo]
"MicroEmacs_foo"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\MicroEmacs_foo\\DefaultIcon]
"C:\\Program File\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\meicons,23"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\MicroEmacs_foo\\Shell\\open]
"&Open"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\MicroEmacs_foo\\Shell\\open\\command]
"C:\\Program File\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe -o "%1""
.CE
In the previous example the \fIDefaultIcon\fR entry is the icon assigned to the
file.  This may be an icon  taken  from  \fCmeicons.exe\fR  (in this case icon
number 23), or may be some other icon. The open action in the example uses the
\fB-o\fR  option  of the  \fIclient-server\fR,  which  loads the file into the
current \*(mE session, alternatively the \fB-c\fR option may be used to retain
the previous context, or no option if a new session with no other files loaded
is started.
.PP
A generic open for \s-1ALL\s0  files may be defined using a wild-card, this may
be used to place a \fIMicroEmacs\fR  edit entry in the right-click pop-up menu,
as follows:-
.CS
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\*\\shell]
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\*\\shell\\MicroEmacs]
"&MicroEmacs"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\*\\shell\\MicroEmacs\\command]
"C:\\Program File\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe -o "%1""
.CE 0
.SH "ORGANIZING A LOCAL USER PROFILE"
\*(mS uses  local user  configuration  profiles  to store user  specific
information. The user  information may be stored in the MicroEmacs  directory,
or more  typically in a users  private  directory.  On login  systems then the
user name and user private directory location is automatically determined from
the system.
.PP
The user name identified by \*(mS is
.Ht $user-name 5
this value may be set or re-defined using the environment variable
.Ht $MENAME 5 .
On  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  and early windows systems where there is no user login then
then
.Ht $MENAME 5
may be defined in the environment.
.PP
The  location  of  the  user  information   depends  upon  your  platform  and
installation   configuration. The private directory identified by \*(mS is
.Ht $user-path 5
this location may be changed by defining the environment variable
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 .
.PP
Microsoft Windows users may use the
.Ht me32.ini 8
file to define \*(mS configuration path and name information.
.SS "User Profile Files"
Files contained in the user profiles typically include:-
.PP
\fI<name>\fR\fC.emf\fR \- The users start up profile - \|\fI<user>\fR\|.emf.
.br
\fI<name>\fR\fC.edf\fR \- The users spelling dictionary.
.br
\fI<name>\fR\fC.erf\fR \- The users registry configuration file.
.PP
These files are automatically set up by \*(mS.
These  files are  established  from the menu  "\fBTools\fR -> \fBUser  Setup\fR".  The
"\fBSetup  Path\fR"  item  defines  the  location  of the  files,  but must be
\s-1MANUALLY\s0 included in the \fC$MEPATH\fR environment.
.SS "Company Profiles"
Company  profiles  include standard files and extensions to the standard files
which may be related to a company, this is typically \fI<company>\fR.emf where
\fI<company>\fR is the name of the company.
.PP
The directory may also include template files
.Ht etf 8
files which defines
the standard header template used in the files. Files in the "\fCcompany\fR"
directory would over-ride the standard template files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 ,
.Hl "Company Profiles" CompanyProfiles 2 ,
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Hl "File Language Templates" languageTemplates 2 ,
.Hl "User Profiles" UserProfiles 2 .
.ad
.FH
