.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Jul 11 13:30:15 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar008.2,v 1.8 2009/08/29 17:13:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH localeSupport 2
.XI localeSupport - "Locale Support"
.SH "LOCALE SUPPORT"
Locale support within \*(mS handles the hardware and software configuration with respect to location, including:-
.RS
.sp
.na
Character Sets
.br
Word Characters
.br
Keyboard Support
.br
Language
.br
Spell Support
.ad
.sp
.RE
There are many other locale problems which are not addressed in this help page. Supporting different locale
configurations often requires specific hardware (a locale specific keyboard) and knowledge of the language and customs
of the region. This makes it a very difficult area for one localized development team to support, as such, JASSPA rely
heavily on the user base to report locale issues.
.SS "Note on Names and IDs"
The language name is not sufficient to identify a locale (Mexican Spanish is different to Spanish Spanish) neither is
the country name (two languages are commonly used in Belgium), so before we've really started the first problem of
what to call the locale has no standard answer! Call it what you like but please try to call it something meaningful
so others may understand and benefit from your work.
.PP
In addition, the \fIinternal id\fR and \fIdata file\fR names have a length limit of just four characters due to the
"\fC8.3\fR" naming conversion of MS-DOS. The standard adopted by JASSPA \*(mS for the internal locale id is to combine
the 2 letter ISO language name (ISO 639-1) with the 2 letter ISO country name (ISO 3166-1). Should the locale
encompasses more than one country, then the most appropriate \fIcountry id\fR is selected.
.SH "Character Sets"
A character set is the mapping of an integer number to a display symbol (i.e. character). The ASCII standard defines a
mapping of numbers to the standard English characters, this standard is well defined and accepted, as a result the
character set rarely causes a problem for plain English.
.PP
Problems occur when a language uses characters located outside the ASCII standard, such as letters with accents, letters
which are not Latin based (e.g. Greek alphabet) and particularly  with languages that have a large number of 'letters'
or logograms (e.g. Chinese) which require multiple bytes to encode. There
are many different character sets to choose between and if the wrong character set is selected then the incorrect
character translation is performed resulting in an incorrect command behaviour and/or character display.
.PP
For several  reasons the core of \*(mS can only support a single byte  character set so cannot support  languages like
Chinese. 
.SS "Internal Character Set"
Before the adoption of  international  standards such as Unicode, each operating  system vendor would typically create
their own character  set, or code page, that best met the needs of their  customers. As a result there are many in use
making it impossible to properly support them all directly. The use of a standard  internal  character set allows
for the creation of a single set of spelling rules and dictionary  that can be used by all compatible  character sets
with a simple mapping.
.PP
\*(mS does not  intrinsically  require, nor is it biased  towards any one  character set or group of sets, however the
main  Windows  code pages (i.e.  CP-1252,  CP-1253 etc) have been  adopted as these  typically  have the most  defined
characters  providing the best language support.  Therefore all supported  languages use the most appropriate  Windows
character set for their spelling rules and dictionaries. 
.SS "Displayed Character Set"
The current display  character set being used is not determined by the current operating system, but by the font being
used in \*(mS (which may be limited be the OS). For example, UNIX X-Term  systems  typically  use \*(iF based fonts but
fonts using other code pages, such as CP-1252  which have  numerous  additional  important  characters  such as a Euro
symbol, can be found in \fCpcf\fR format, installed and used by \*(mS.
.PP
If the character display looks incorrect in \*(mS, such as text containing incorrect or weird symbols, use the
.Ht insert-symbol 3
command the review the display character set actually being used and verify what it is, then use the platform page of
.Ht user-setup 3 
command to check and correct the font and character set \*mS is configured to use.
.PP
If the problem persists (i.e. because the character set used to write the text is not supported on your current
system) use the
.Ht change-buffer-charset 3
command to convert the text to the current display character set.
.PP
If your character-set is not supported then first make sure that \*(mS will draw all of the characters to be used. By
default \*(mS does not draw some characters directly as the symbol may not be defined. When a character is not defined
then there will typically be a gap or space in the text at the unknown character, in some cases there may be no space
at all which will make it very hard to use. The
.Ht insert-symbol 3
command (\fBEdit->Insert Symbol\fR) is a good way of looking at which characters can be used with the current
character set.
.PP
For a character to be rendered (when in main text) or poked (drawn by
.Ht screen-poke 2
or
.Ht osd 2 )
is defined by the \fCd\fR and \fCp\fR flags of
.Ht set-char-mask 2
command. The characters that are used when drawing \*(mS's window boarders or \fBosd\fR dialogs is set via the
.Ht $box-chars 5
and
.Ht $window-chars 5
variables.
.PP
\*(mS attempts to improve the availability of useful graphics characters on Windows and UNIX X-Term interfaces. The
characters between 0 and 31 are typically control characters with no graphical representation (e.g. new-line,
backspace, tab etc.) if bit 0x10000 of the
.Ht $system 5
variable is set then \*(mS renders its own set of characters. These characters are typically used for drawing boxes
and scroll-bars.
.PP
With so many character sets, each with their own character mappings, then the problem of spelling dictionary support
is also tied to the locale. \*(mS uses the ISO standard character sets (ISO 8859) internally for word and spelling
support and therefore a mapping between the ISO standard and the user character set is required. This mapping is
defined by using the '\fCM\fR' flag of the
.Ht set-char-mask 2
command.
.PP
The user may declare the current character set in the platform page of
.Ht user-setup 3 .
All the settings required for supporting each character set may be found in the \fCcharset.emf\fR macro file, so if
your character set is not supported, this is the file to edit.
.SS "Unicode support"
Unicode support within \*(mS is very limited due to its single byte character set limitation,  however flag \fBc\fR of
command 
.Ht set-char-mask 2
can be used to map characters 0x80 to 0xff of the display character set to their Unicode equivalent. Correctly mapping
these  characters  allows  better  handling  of  text  transfer  between  \*(mS  and the  system  clipboard  (see  bit
\fB0x800000\fR of
.Ht $system 5 )
and allows conversion to and from UTF-8 using the
.Ht change-buffer-charset 3
command.
.PP
The use of character  \fC0x07\fR (Bell) is used to denote an unsupported  character while  \fBchange-buffer-charset\fR
has an option to  preserve  unsupported  Unicode  characters  by encoding  them to a 3 or 5 digit  hexadecimal  number
prefixed  with the  character  \fC0x01\fR  or  \fC0x02\fR.  Care must be taken to avoid  splitting or  corrupting  the
resultant 4 or 6 byte strings, however once editing is complete the \fBchange-buffer-charset\fR command can be used to
convert the buffer back to UTF-8 before saving. 
.SH "Word characters"
Word characters are those characters which are deemed to be part of a word, numbers are usually included. Many \*(mS
commands use the 'Word' character set such as
.Ht forward-word 2
and
.Ht upper-case-word 2 .
The  characters  that form the word class should be determined by the display  character set being used rather than by
the language, this is because which character are letters within the display character set doesn't change and flagging
all letters  improves  general  usability.  For example,  English does not typically use accented  letters but it does
inherit words that do, eg. \fIfianc'e\fR, so treating \fC'e\fR ('e' acute) as a letter always makes more sense.
.PP
The '\fCa\fR' flag of command
.Ht set-char-mask 2
is used to specify whether a character is part of a word, you must specify the uppercase letter and then the lowercase
equivalent so the case conversion functions work correctly.
.PP
This may unfortunately be made a little more tricky by the requirement that this list must be specified in the most
appropriate character set (see \fBInternal Character Set\fR section). When extending the word character
set the characters have to be mapped to the current character set which may not support all the required characters.
For example in the PC-437 DOS character set there is an e-grave (\fC`e\fR) but no E-grave so the E-grave is mapped to
the normal E. As a result, if trying to write French text the case changing commands will behave oddly, for example:
.CS
    r`egle -> REGLE -> r`egl`e
.CE
The conversion of all '\fCE\fR's to '\fC`e\fR' is an undesirable side effect of '\fC`E\fR' being mapped to \fCE\fR.
This can be avoided by redefining the base letter again at the end of the word character list, for example:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-char-mask "a" "`E`eEe"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "Keyboard Support"
The keyboard to character mapping is defined in the Start-Up page of
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
where the keyboard may be selected from a list of known keyboards. If your keyboard is not present, or is not working
correctly, then this section should allow you to fix the problem (please send JASSPA the fix).
.PP 
Most operating systems seem to handle keyboard mappings with the exception of MS-Windows which requires a helping
hand. The root of the problems with MS-Windows is it's own locale character mappings which change the visibility
status of the keyboard messages which conflict with Emacs keystroke bindings. To support key-bindings like
\&'\fCC-tab\fR' or '\fCS-return\fR' a low level keyboard interface is required, but this can lead to strange problems
with the more obscure keys, particularly with the '\fCAlt Gr\fR' accented letter keys. For example on American
keyboards pressing '\fCC-#\fR' results in two \&'\fCC-#\fR' key events being generated, this peculiarity only occurs
with this one key. On a British keyboard the same key generates a '\fCC-#\fR' followed by a \'\fCC-\\\fR'.
.PP
This problem can be diagnosed using the
.Ht $recent-keys 5
variable. Simply type an obvious character, e.g. '\fCA\fR' then the offending key followed by another obvious key
('\fCB\fR'), then look for this key sequence in the \fB$recent-keys\fR variable (use the
.Ht list-variables 2
or 
.Ht describe-variable 2
command). So for the above British keyboard problem the recent-keys would be:
.CS
    B C-\\\\ C-# A
.CE
($recent-keys lists the keys backwards). Once you have found the key sequence generated by the key, the problem may be
fixed using the
.Ht translate-key 2
to automatically convert the incorrect key sequence into the required key. For the problem above the following line is
required:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
translate-key "C-# C-\\\\" "C-#"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Note that once a key sequence has been translated everything, including \fB$recent-keys\fR, receive only the
translated key. So if you a suspected a problem with the existing definition, change the keyboard type in
\fBuser-setup\fR to \fBDefault\fR so no translations are performed, quit and restart \*(mS before attempting to
re-diagnose the problem.
.PP
All the settings required for supporting each keyboard may be found in the \fCkeyboard.emf\fR macro file, so if your
keyboard is not supported, this is the file you need to edit.
.SH Language
The current language can be set in the Start-up page of
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
setting the language lets to the following two variables being set:
.IP \fB.spell.language\fR
This  variable  defines  the 4 letter ID used for the  language  which is made up of the 2 letter  ISO  language  code
followed  by the 2 letter  ISO  country  code, see  \fINote  on Names and  IDs\fR  above.  The value of this  variable
determines which spell checking rules and dictionary are loaded.
.IP \fB.change-font.ln-type\fR
This variable is a string whose characters  determine which character set groups can support the language, for example
Francais  is set to  "\fC24\fR"  indicated  that both  character  sets of group  \fB2\fR and \fB4\fR can  support  the
language,  these  character  sets include  CP-1252, \*(aF, CP-850 & CP-437 from group \fB2\fR and CP-1254 & ISO-8859-9
from group  \fB4\fR.  The first  character  set group given by this  variable, 2 in this case,  defines the main or
preferred character set group, and the first character set within this group, see variable  \fB.change-font.cs-type\fR
defined in \fBcharset.emf\fR defines the primary or internal character set used by that group.
.PP
If your  language is not  supported  you will need to add it to the list and define these two  variables  found in the
\fClanguage.emf\fR macro file.
.SH "Spell Support"
The current language is set using the Language setting on General page of
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
if your required language is not listed you must first create the basic language support by following the guide lines
in the \fBWord Character\fR section above. If you Language is listed, select it and enable it by either pressing
\fBCurrent\fR or saving and restarting \*(mS. in a suitable test buffer run the
.Hl "spelling checker" spell-buffer 3 ,
one of three things will happen:
.PP
The \fCSpelling Checker\fR dialog opens and spelling is checked
.PP
.RS
The spelling checker is supported by the current language and can be used (the rules and dictionaries have been
downloaded and installed).
.RE
.PP
Dialog opens with the following error message:
.RS
.CS
Rules and dictionaries for language "XXXX"
   are not available, please download.
.CE
The spelling checker is supported by the current language but the required rules and dictionaries have not been
downloaded. You should be able to download them from the JASSPA website, see
.Hl "Contact Information" Contact - .
Once downloaded they must be placed in the \*(mS
.Hl "search path" $search-path 5 ,
i.e. where the other macro files (like \fCme.emf\fR) are located.
.RE
.PP
Dialog opens with the following error message:
.RS
.CS
Language "XXXX" not supported!
.CE
The spelling checker is not supported by the current language, see the following \fBAdding Spell Support\fR section.
.RE
.SS "Adding Spell Support"
To support a language \*(mS's spelling checker requires a base word dictionary and a set of rules which define what
words can be derived from each base word in the dictionary. The concept and format of the word list and rules are
compatible with the \fBFree Software Foundation\fR GNU
.Hr ispell 1 ,
.Hr myspell 1
and
.Hr hunspell 1
packages.  Not all  features  of hunspell  are  supported  by \*(mS, most  notably  composite  rules and right to left
languages.
.PP
The best starting point is to obtain rules and dictionary files (<lang>.aff & <lang>.dic) for one of these packages, the web can usually yield
these. Once these have been obtained the rules file (or affix file) must be converted to a \*(mS macro file calling
the
.Ht add-spell-rule 2
command to define the rules. The rule file should be named "\fClsr\fR\fI<lang-id>\fR\fC.emf\fR" where
"\fI<lang-id>\fR" is the spelling language id, determined by the \fB.spell.language\fR variable set in the
\fClanguage.emf\fR macro file.
.PP
The \fCspellutl.emf\fR macro file contains the command  \fBispell-convert\fR which will attempt to convert the aff and
dic files and macros \fBspell-check-list\fR,  \fBspell-check-guess\fR and \fBispell-test\fR to aid conversion accuracy
verification. See existing spelling rule files (\fClsr*.emf\fR) for examples and help on command
.Ht add-spell-rule 2 .
.PP
\fBNote\fR: the character set used by the rules should be the most appropriate for the language (see
\fBInternal  Character  Set\fRsection),  this can make the process  more  difficult,  but adding  support for the base
character sets involved to \fCcharset.emf\fR will enable the command
.Ht change-buffer-charset 3
to function correctly and avoid some of the more subtle issues that can arise from incompatible character sets. If you
are having difficulty with this please e-mail
.Hl "JASSPA Support" Contact - .
.PP
Once the conversion process has completed it should have generated a  "\fClsr\fR\fI<lang-id>\fR\fC.emf\fR"  rules file
and a "\fClsm\fR\fI<lang-id>\fR\fC.edf\fR" dictionary file. With the rapid increase in memory capacity there is little
point these days in splitting  dictionaries into two files so the use of an extended dictionary file for obscure words
has been dropped.
.PP
Once the generated word and dictionary files have been place in the \*(mS
.Hl "search path" $search-path 5 ,
the spelling checker should find and use them. Please submit your generated support to \*(mS for others to benefit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht set-char-mask 2 ,
.Ht translate-key 2 ,
.Ht add-spell-rule 2 ,
.Ht change-buffer-charset 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht $box-chars 5 ,
.Ht $recent-keys 5 .
.Ht $search-path 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht $window-chars 5 .
.ad
.FH
