.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Fri Jan 9 00:04:42 2004
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar009.2,v 1.4 2026/02/16 20:46:03 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH Patching 1
.XI Patching - "Patch a MicroEmacs Installation"
.SH "PATCHING"
This  page  describes  how to  patch a  MicroEmacs  installation  with a later
release without re-installing.
.SS Windows
Windows requires careful patching in order not to disturb the registry
settings The following procedure should be followed.
.IP \(bu
Move to the jasspa directory,
\fCc:\\ProgramFiles\\JASSPA\\Microemacs\fR.
.IP \(bu
COPY  the  executable  \fCme32.exe\fR  to a  backup,  you  MUST  copy the file
otherwise the registry settings will change. DO NOT MOVE THE FILE.
.IP
\fCcopy me32.exe me32_2002_12.exe\fR
.IP \(bu
Save the macros directory, these may be moved i.e.
.IP
\fCrename macros macros_2002_12\fR
.IP \(bu
Unpack and install the new Windows executable and COPY over the original
executable that was previously backed up i.e.
.IP
\fCcopy c:\\path-to-executable\\me32-win32-20040108-rc1.exe me32.exe\fR
.IP \(bu
Create a new macros  directory and install the macros into this new directory,
do this manually or using a utility like WINZip.
.IP
.nf
\fCmkdir macros\fR
\fCcd macros\fR
\fCunzip c:\\path-to\\memacros-20040108-rc1.zip\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
The new  version of  MicroEmacs  will now  operate  with the old  installation
environment. You may return to the old release by reversing the steps to patch
the installation.
.SS UNIX/Linux
For  \fB*NIX\fR  package  installations  then patching is a little easier. The
steps are defined as follows:-
.IP \(bu
Move to the jasspa directory.
.IP
\fCcd /opt/jasspa/bin\fR
.IP \(bu
Save the original executable.
.IP
\fCmv me me_200212\fR
.IP \(bu
Unpack the new executable and make it executable.
.IP
.nf
\fCgunzip me-sun-solaris-20040108-rc1.gz\fR
\fCmv me-sun-solaris-20040108-rc1 me\fR
\fCchmod a+x me\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
Save the existing macros directory.
.IP
.nf
\fCcd /opt/jasspa\fR
\fCmv macros macros_200212\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
Create a new macros directory and install the new macros:-
.IP 
.nf
\fCmkdir macros\fR
\fCcd macros\fR
\fCunzip /path-to/memacros-20040108-rc1.zip\fR
.fi
.IP \(bu
Installed  packages are built with the install path built into the executable,
this  may be  different  from  the  patch  version  of the  executable  so the
environment variable
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5
may be defined in the environment with the macro installation search paths.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 ,
.Hl "Company Profiles" CompanyProfiles 2 ,
.Hl "Installation" Installation 1 ,
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Hl "File Language Templates" languageTemplates 2 ,
.Hl "User Profiles" UserProfiles 2 .
.ad
.FH
