.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Jan 2 00:31:47 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar004.2,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:13:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH "Interfacing" 2
.XI Interfacing - "Interfacing to external components"
.SH "INTERFACING"
This sections describes how \*(mE may be interfaced to external components.
.SS "Shells"
A shell window may be opened  within the context of the editor
using the command
.Ht ishell 3 ,
whereby an interactive command shell is presented within a buffer.
.PP
In the Microsoft Windows environment a \fBcygwin\fR UNIX style BASH shell
may be realised with the
.Ht cygwin 3
command.
.SS "Debugger"
Within the UNIX environment the GNU
.Hr gdb 1
or native UNIX 
.Hr dbx 1
debuggers may be invoked from the editor using
.Ht gdb 3 
or
.Ht dbx 3 .
respectively
This  invokes the  debugger  and follows the  debugging  process in the editor
window, automatically opening the source files as the debugger calls for them.
.SS "Microsoft Developer Studio"
In the Microsoft windows environment, the
.Ht memsdev 1
DLL may be attached to the
.B "Microsoft Developer Studio"
to enable \*(mE to be used in place of the in-built editor.
.SS "File Searching"
File searching is performed using
.Hr grep 1
using the
.Ht grep 3
command. For Windows then the GNU grep utility is recommended, for MS-DOS then
the  DJGPP version of GNU grep is recommended.
.SS "File Differencing"
Differencing files, or directories is performed using the
.Hr diff 1
utility using the
.Ht diff 3
command.  For all  platforms  the GNU  diff  utility  is  recommended  as this
provides a  comprehensive  differencing  that is not typically  available with
native UNIX diff utilities.
.SS "Tag Files"
A \fBtag\fR capability exists (see
.Ht find-tag 2 )
such that source functions and alike may be located quickly using a \fBtags\fR
file. The standard
.Hr ctags 1 
format is used by MicroEmacs.  The \fBtags\fR  file itself may be generated by
\*(mE from the menu (\fITools->XX Tools->Create Tags File\fR). Alternatively a
\fBtags\fR file may be generated by the 
.Hr ctags 1 
utility.  This is typically  standard on  \s-1UNIX\s0  platforms.  For Windows
and \s-1DOS\s0  platforms then the \fBExuberant  Ctags\fR is recommended, this
is available from:-
.IP
.C "http://darren.hiebert.com"
.LP
A \*(mE compatible tags file may be generated using the command line
.\"
"\fCctags -N --format=1 ."\fR  cataloging  the  current  directory.  To generate  \fBtags\fR  for a
directory tree then use 
.\"
"\fCctags -NR --format=1 .\fR". Refer to the \fBExuberant  Ctags\fR  documentation  for a
more detailed description of the utility.
.SS "Compilation"
Compilation is performed using the
.Ht compile 3
command. This invokes a command shell, typically using
.Hr make 1
to initiate a build sequence.
.SS "Client-Server"
The
.Hl Client-Server Client-Server 2
interface allows other client  applications to inject commands into an already
existing \*(mE session (the server), thereby  controlling the editor remotely.
This is typically  used to inject new files into the editor to be presented to
the user.
.PP
The  \fIClient-Server\fR  interface is available in both the  \s-1UNIX\s0  and
Microsoft  Windows  environments.  This  mechanism  is  used in the  Microsoft
windows environment by the
.Ht memsdev 1
DLL to attach the
.B "Microsoft Developer Studio"
to  \*(mE.  This may be used  with  similar  effects  within  the  \s-1UNIX\s0
environments from the X-Window managers desktop in addition to other utilities
such as
.Hr TkDesk 1 .
.SS "Command Line Filer"
\*(mS may be invoked as a command filter in it's own right, macro scripts have
been developed to perform a 
.Hr dos2unix 1 
conversion operation, generate tags files etc. See
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hr ctags 1 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht cygwin 3 ,
.Ht dbx 3 ,
.Ht diff 3 ,
.Ht find-tag 2
.Ht gdb 3 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht ishell 3 ,
.Ht memsdev 1 ,
.br
.Hl Client-Server Client-Server 2 ,
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - .
.ad
.FH
