.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth, University of Potsdam, Germany
.\"  Created       : Fri Jul 18 10:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl015.3,v 2.6 2025/07/23 08:44:48 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH phptags 3f
.XI phptags - "Generate a PHP tags file"
.SH NAME
phptags \- Generate a PHP tags file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@phptags" [\fI-v%tag-option=<flags>\fR] [\fIfiles\fR]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file  \fCphptags.emf\fR  may be invoked from the command line to
generate a \fBtags\fR file for PHP files, 
.Ht php 9 .
.PP
Given a list of  \fIfiles\fR  a tags file  \fCtags\fR  is  generated  in the
current directory, which may be used by the 
.Ht find-tag 2
command. If no \fIfiles\fR  are specified the default file list is "\fC./\fR",
i.e. process the current  directory. If a directory name is given (such as the
default  "\fC./\fR")  all PHP  files  within  the  directory  will be
processed.
.PP
The value of variable  \fB%tag-option\fR is used to control the tag generation
process,  its value  \fI<flags>\fR  can  contain  any number of the  following
flags:
.IP \fCa\fR
Append  new tags to the  existing  tag  file,  note  that if also  using  flag
\&'\fCm\fR' multiple 'tags' to the same item may be created.
.IP \fCm\fR
Enable  multiple  tags. This enables the existence of 2 tags with the same tag
name, but typically with different locations. See help on
.Ht find-tag 2
for more information on multiple tag support.
.IP \fCr\fR
Enables  recursive mode, any sub-directory  found within any given directories
will also be processed.  
.SH NOTES
This function is invoked from menu 
.IP
.B "Tools -> PHP Tools -> Generate Tags File"
.LP
when the user requests a tags file to be generated.
.PP
The user  setup  file  "\fCmyphptags.emf\fR"  is  executed  by phptags  during
start-up, this file can be used to over-ride any of the perltags  configuration
variables (see below).
.PP
The  following  variables are set within  "\fCphptags.emf\fR"  and are used to
control the process:-
.IP \fB%tag-option\fR
Tags options flag, default value is "". See above for more information.
.IP \fB%tag-filemask\fR
A list of source file masks to be processed when a directory is given, default
value   is   "\fC:*.php:*.php3:*.php4:*.php5:*.phtml:*.inc:\fR".
.IP \fB%tag-ignoredir\fR
A list of  directories  to be ignored when  recursive  option is used, default
value is "\fC:SCCS/:CVS/:.git/:.svn/:\fR".
.PP
These  variables  can be changed using the -v  command-line  option or via the
"\fCmyphptags.emf\fR" file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht start-up 3 ,
.Ht php 9 .
.ad
.FH
