.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 21:40:07 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl002.3,v 2.8 2006-11-07 21:55:43 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH 2unix 3f
.XI 2dos - "Convert text files to DOS format files." 
.XI 2mac - "Convert text files to Macintosh format files"
.XI 2unix - "Convert text files to UNIX format files"
.XI 2win - "Convert text files to Windows format files." 
.XI dos2unix - "Convert DOS format files to UNIX format files"
.XI unix2dos - "Convert UNIX format files to DOS format files." 
.XI unix2win - "Convert UNIX format files to Windows format files." 
.SH NAME
2unix \-  Convert text files to UNIX format files
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@2dos" \fI<files>\fR
.br
\fBme\fR "@2mac" \fI<files>\fR
.br
\fBme\fR "@2unix" \fI<files>\fR
.br
\fBme\fR "@2win" \fI<files>\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file \fC2unix.emf\fR may be invoked from the command line as a
filter to  convert  all text files,  which may be in  \s-1MS-DOS\s0,  Windows,
Macintosh  format  into \s-1UNIX\s0 text format.
.PP
Each file  specified on the command line is  interrogated  and the line ending
modified to \s-1UNIX\s0.
.PP
\fC2dos\fR,   \fC2win\fR   and   \fC2mac\fR   similarly   operate  to  provide
conversion from any of these formats to \s-1MS-DOS\s0, Macintosh or Windows file
formats.
.SH EXAMPLE
When using  \s-1ME\s0 as a command line filter it is advisable to control
the backup  command line  options.  Typically  the backups and  auto-save  are
disabled so that no backup files are generated i.e.
.CS
me -a -B "@2dos" files...
.CE
Performs a  conversion  from  \s-1UNIX\s0  to  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  and disables the
generation of auto-save files and backups.
.PP
\s-1NE\s0  may be used to run the filters, by default  \s-1NE\s0  runs without
backup and auto-save mode enabled and the flags should \s-1NOT\s0 be used.
.CS
ne "@2dos" files...
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
\fCMS-DOS\fR  files are  defined to use a line ending of  \fC\\r\\n\fR,  the
file is terminated with \fCctrl-z\fR.
.PP
Macintosh  files are  defined to use a line ending of  \fC\\r\fR,  there is no
special end of file character.
.PP
Microsoft  Windows  files are  defined to use a line  ending of  \fC\\r\\n\fR,
there is no special end of file character.
.PP
\s-1UNIX\s0  files are defined to use a line ending of \fC\\n\fR,  there is no
special end of file character.
.PP
The  unix2dos.emf,  dos2unix.emf  and  unix2win.emf  were renamed to 2dos.emf,
2unix.emf  and 2win.emf  when 2mac.emf was added in October 2006 as the 'from'
format is not important and number of combinations became unmanageable. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht start-up 3 ,
.Ht filetype 3f ,
.Ht auto 2m ,
.Ht crlf 2m ,
.Ht ctrlz 2m .
.ad
.FH
