.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 21:40:07 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl001.3,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:13:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH gdiff 3f
.XI gdiff - "Command line graphical file difference"
.SH NAME
gdiff \- Command line graphical file difference
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@gdiff" "\fIversion1\fR" "\fIversion2\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(mS may be executed from the command line to invoke the
.I "Graphical Difference"
.Ht gdiff 3
macro, showing the difference(s) between two files.
.PP
The editor is invoked in \fBgdiff\fR mode and shows the difference between the
two files on the command  line. The two files are  presented  side by side and
the lines are matched  together, the windows are effectively  locked together,
scrolling one window causes the other window to scroll.
.PP
The changes are shown as color coded regions of  highlighted  text. Each block
(or line) has to be  accepted  or  rejected  by the user, when all blocks have
been accepted then the buffer may be written out merging the changes from both
files depending on the  accept/reject  status. Blocks which have been accepted
are typically shown in green, the rejected lines are shown in red.
.SS "Key Mapping"
The keyboard mapping in \fBgdiff\fR mode is defined as follows:
.IP "\fBesc-h\fR"
Help information.
.IP "\fBC-up\fR/\fBp\fR"
Advance to the previous difference.
.IP "\fBC-down\fR/\fBn\fR"
Advance to the next difference.
.IP "\fBesc-up\fR/P"
Advance to the previous unassigned difference.
.IP "\fBesc-down\fR/N"
Advance to the next unassigned difference.
.IP "\fBg\fR"
Globally select all of the differences from the current window as assigned.
.IP "\fBG\fR"
Globally un-select all of the assigned differences.
.IP "\fBr\fR/\fBspace\fR/\fBreturn\fR/\fBleft-mouse\fR"
Selects the current difference, only operates within a highlighted  difference
region.
.IP "\fBR\fR"
Un-selects  the  current   difference,  only  operates  within  a  highlighted
difference region.
.IP "\fBl\fR"
Selects the current line in a highlighted region for assignment.
.IP "\fBL\fR"
Unselects the current line in a highlighted region for assignment.
.IP "\fBsave-buffer\fR"
Saves the current buffer, all of the assignment changes are merged and written
out to the existing buffer.
.IP "\fBwrite-buffer\fR"
Saves the current  buffer after merging all of the and assignment  changes and
prompts the user for the name of a new buffer.
.IP "\fBleft\fR/\fBright\fR"
Scrolls the buffer left or right.
.IP "\fBkill-buffer\fR/\fBC-x C-c\fR"
Quits \fBgdiff\fR, the user is prompted to save changes.
.SH NOTES
The macro is defined in file \fCgdiff.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht gdiff 3 ,
.Ht start-up 3 ,
.Ht xdiff 3 .
.ad
.FH
