.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth, University of Potsdam, Germany
.\"  Created       : Fri Jul 18 10:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl013.3,v 2.6 2025/07/18 10:23:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH vbtags 3f
.XI vbtags - "Generate a Visual Basic tags file"
.SH NAME
vbtags \- Generate a Visual Basic tags file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@vbtags" [\fI-v%tag-option=<flags>\fR] [\fIfiles\fR]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file  \fCvbtags.emf\fR  may be invoked from the command line to
generate a \fBtags\fR file for Visual Basic files, 
.Ht vb 9 .
.PP
Given a list of  \fIfiles\fR  a tags file  \fCtags\fR  is  generated  in the
current directory, which may be used by the 
.Ht find-tag 2
command. If no \fIfiles\fR  are specified the default file list is "\fC./\fR",
i.e. process the current  directory. If a directory name is given (such as the
default  "\fC./\fR")  all Visual Basic  files  within  the  directory  will be
processed.
.PP
The value of variable  \fB%tag-option\fR is used to control the tag generation
process,  its value  \fI<flags>\fR  can  contain  any number of the  following
flags:
.IP \fCa\fR
Append  new tags to the  existing  tag  file,  note  that if also  using  flag
\&'\fCm\fR' multiple 'tags' to the same item may be created.
.IP \fCm\fR
Enable  multiple  tags. This enables the existence of 2 tags with the same tag
name, but typically with different locations. See help on
.Ht find-tag 2
for more information on multiple tag support.
.IP \fCp\fR
Add  prototype declarations  (i.e.  lines  marked  with
\fIDeclare\fR and a function or subroutine name).
.IP \fCr\fR
Enables  recursive mode, any sub-directory  found within any given directories
will also be processed.  
.IP \fCv\fR
Add  global variables  to  the  tag  file.  (i.e.  variables  marked  with
\fIPublic\fR or \fIPrivate\fR).
.SH NOTES
This function is invoked from menu 
.IP
.B "Tools -> Visual Basic Tools -> Generate Tags File"
.LP
when the user requests a tags file to be generated.
.PP
The user  setup  file  "\fCmyvbtags.emf\fR"  is  executed  by vbtags  during
start-up, this file can be used to over-ride any of the vbtags  configuration
variables (see below).
.PP
The  following  variables are set within  "\fCvbtags.emf\fR"  and are used to
control the process:-
.IP \fB%tag-option\fR
Tags options flag, default value is "". See above for more information.
.IP \fB%tag-filemask\fR
A list of source file masks to be processed when a directory is given, default
value   is   "\fC:*.bas:*.cls:*.asp:\fR".
.IP \fB%tag-ignoredir\fR
A list of  directories  to be ignored when  recursive  option is used, default
value is "\fC:SCCS/:CVS/:.git/:.svn/:\fR".
.PP
These  variables  can be changed using the -v  command-line  option or via the
"\fCmyvbtags.emf\fR" file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht start-up 3 ,
.Ht vb 9 .
.ad
.FH
