.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3fcl008.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 21:40:07 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl008.3,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:54:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH printall 3f
.XI printall - "Formatted print job"
.SH NAME
printall \- Formatted print job
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@printall" \fI<files>\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file  \fCprintalls.emf\fR  may be invoked from the command line to
generate a print job for each file specified on the command line.
.PP
Given  a list  of  \fI<files>\fR,  the  files  are  loaded  into  the  editor,
and then printed through \*(mS printing formatter. This is an alternative to 
.Hr cgrind 1 
or some other syntax smart \fIpretty print\fR filter.
.PP
The operation of this macro assumes that the printer is functioning correctly.
.SH BUGS
As a guess, I would  probably bet that this does not work very well on Windows
as a dialog is invoked for the print. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht start-up 3 .
.ad
.FH
