.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3fcl011.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 21:40:07 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl011.3,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH javatags 3f
.XI javatags - "Generate a C tags file from Java sources"
.SH NAME
javatags \- Generate a C tags file from Java sources.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@javatags" [\fI-v%tag-option=<flags>\fR] [\fIfiles\fR]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file  \fCjavatags.emf\fR  may be invoked from the command line to
generate a \fBtags\fR file for java source files.
.PP
Given a list of  \fIfiles\fR  a tags file  \fCtags\fR  is  generated  in the
current directory, which may be used by the 
.Ht find-tag 2
command. This is a good  alternative  on Microsoft  platforms  where a utility
such as 
.Hr ctags 1 
is not  typically  available  to process  Java  files. If no  \fIfiles\fR  are
specified  the  default  file list is  "\fC./\fR",  i.e.  process  the current
directory. If a directory  name is given (such as the default  "\fC./\fR") all
Java source files within the directory will be processed.
.PP
The value of variable  \fB%tag-option\fR is used to control the tag generation
process,  its value  \fI<flags>\fR  can  contain  any number of the  following
flags:
.IP \fCa\fR
Append  new tags to the  existing  tag  file,  note  that if also  using  flag
\&'\fCm\fR' multiple 'tags' to the same item may be created.
.IP \fCm\fR
Enable  multiple  tags. This enables the existence of 2 tags with the same tag
name, but typically with different locations. See help on
.Ht find-tag 2
for more information on multiple tag support.
.IP \fCr\fR
Enables  recursive mode, any sub-directory  found within any given directories
will also be processed.
.IP \fCv\fR
Add  global variables  to  the  tag  file.  (i.e.  variables  marked  with
\fIextern\fR).
.IP \fCs\fR
Add classes definitions to the tag file (i.e. \fIclass\fR).
.PP
The generated tags file includes \fC#define\fR and C++ class names.
.SH NOTES
This function is invoked from menu 
.IP
.B "Tools -> C Tools -> Create Tags File"
.LP
when the user requests a tags file to be generated.
.PP
The user setup file  "\fCmyjavatags.emf\fR"  is  executed  by javatags  during
start-up, this file can be used to over-ride any of the javatags configuration
variables (see below).
.PP
The following  variables are set within  "\fCjavatags.emf\fR"  and are used to
control the process:-
.IP \fB%tag-option\fR
Tags options flag, default value is "". See above for more information.
.IP \fB%tag-filemask\fR
A list of source file masks to be processed when a directory is given, default
value   is   "\fC:*.java:*.jav:\fR".
.IP \fB%tag-ignoredir\fR
A list of  directories  to be ignored when  recursive  option is used, default
value is "\fC:SCCS/:CVS/:\fR".
.PP
These  variables  can be changed using the -v  command-line  option or via the
"\fCmyjavatags.emf\fR" file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht start-up 3 ,
.Ht java 9 .
.ad
.FH
