.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac088.3,v 2.1 2022/01/06 15:12:26 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.so me.tni
.TH find 3
.XI find - "Execute built-in find command"
.XI find-setup - "Setup the built-in find and grep commands"
.SH NAME
find \- Execute find command
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|find"
.B find
["\|\fIfind-options\fR\|"]
"\fIfile-mask\fR" ["\|\fIfile-mask\fR\|"...]
["\|\fIstarting-path\fR\|"]
.sp
.Me "|find-setup"
.B find-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B find
performs   a   search   for   files  in  the   current   directory   (or  from
\fIstarting-path\fR\|)  using built in \*(mE constructs rather than relying on
any external executables such as 
.Hr find 1 . 
.B find
operates  in exactly the same way as a  traditional  \fIfind\fR  command  line
utility and uses a command line option  sequence  from the \*(mE command line.
The  \fIfile-options\fR  allow  recursive  and  regular  expression  searches,
searching  against the file  modification time etc. The command line takes the
user supplied \fIfile-options\fR, \fIfile-mask\fR and \fIstarting-path\fR. The
output of the command is piped into the \fB*find*\fR buffer.
.IP "\fIfind-options\fR"
Defines the \fIoptions\fR  that are specified on the command line, the default
options may also be defined with the 
.Hr file-setup 3 
command  invoked from the command line or from the the  \fBTools\fR  menu. The
\fIfind-options\fR are defined as follows:
.RS 
.BP "--"
Last option, the following string must be the first \fIfile-mask\fR which may start with a '-'.
.IP \fB-2\fR
List the file and directory attributes in the output (directory list sort key)
.IP \fB-3\fR
List file and directory size in the output.
.IP \fB-4\fR
List file and directory modified time in the output.
.BP "-a"
Re-read all out of date buffers,  prevents a manual prompt,  equivalent of Yes
to all. This is the inverse of \fB-o\fR
.BP "-b"
Ignore binary files.
.BP "-B"
Do not ignore binary files.
.BP "-c"
Command return the number of matchs found/replaced rather than the default, which is simply 0 for 1 or more matches or
1 if no matches were found/replaced.
.BP "-C"
Command returns 0 (non-error for command-line tool) regardless of if it finds any matches.
.BP "-d"
List directories or grep in directory listings.
.BP "-D"
Do not list directories or grep in directory listings.
.BP "-f"
List/search files.
.BP "-F"
Do not list/search files.
.BP "-g"
File masks are regex (i.e. .*\.emf)
.BP "-G"
File masks are not regex (i.e. *.emf)
.BP "-i"
Ignore search pattern case (case insensitive).
.BP "-I"
Do not ignore search pattern case (case sensitive).
.BP "-l"
Use existing buffer of loaded files.
.BP "-L"
Do not use existing buffer of loaded files.
.BP "-m"
Search pattern is a regular expression.
.BP "-M"
Search pattern is not a regular expression.
.BP "-o"
Do not re-read all out of date buffers,  prevents a manual prompt,  equivalent
of No to all. This is the inverse of \fB-a\fR.
.BP "-p"
Starting path specified.
.BP "-P"
Starting path not specified.
.BP "-q"
Enables quiet mode for reduced print-out.
.BP "-r"
Recurse into sub-directories
.BP "-R"
Do not recurse into sub-directories
.IP "\fB-S\fR \fI<size>\fR"
File size - less than or equal, the following size formats are supported:
.RS
.LP
\fB-S\fR \fI<number>\fR
.\"
File size specified bytes.
.LP
\fB-S\fR \fI<number>\fR\|\fBk\fR
.\"
File size specified in Kilobytes.
.RE
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fI<size>\fR"
File size greater than; supported size formats are the same as \fB-S\fR.
.IP "\fB-T\fR \fI<time>\fR"
Modification time - older than, the following time formats are supported:
.RS
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyy-mm-dd\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyyyy-mm-dd\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIdays\fR
.\"
Offset time in days from  midnight  this  morning, e.g. \fB-T 0\fR would match
all files not modified today. 
.LP
\fB-T \fIdays.hours[.minutes[.seconds]]\fR
.\"
Offset time in , e.g.
.B "-T 1.1.30"
matches all files 25 hours and 30 minutes old.
.RE
.IP
Note that \fB-T 1\fR is not the same as \fB-T 1.0\fR, except at midnight.
.IP "\fB-t\fR \fI<time>\fR"
Modification  time - newer than or equal,  supported time formats are the same
as \fB-T\fR.
.BP "-u"
When used with \fB-w\fR, allows the file size limit of 100MB to be disabled and
strings are searched in files of any size.
.BP "-U"
When used with \fB-U\fR,  files are limited in size 100MB  otherwise they will
not be searched.
.IP "\fB-w\fR \fI<search-pattern>\fR"
File must contain a string matching the given \fIsearch-pattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-W\fR \fI<search-pattern>\fR"
File must not contain a string matching the given \fIsearch-pattern\fR.
.BP "-x"
Use \*(mE 
.Ht $file-ignore 5
to exclude unimportant files
.BP "-X"
Do not use \*(mE 
.Ht $file-ignore 5 .
.BP "-&"
Launch find using a separate process, this stops the current  MicroEmacs hanging during the find process which can
be useful for time consuming searches.
.RE
.IP "\fIfile-mask\fR"
The files to search for e.g. \fB*.txt\fR
.IP "\fIstarting-path\fR"
The directory  location  where the search should  commence. The default is the
location of the current buffer.
.PP
.B file-setup 
invokes a dialogue and allows the default  \fIfile-options\fR  to be specified
when the \fBfind\fR command is invoked.
.SH NOTES
.BS 
Directories  are not  considered  binary  files, so \fB-b\fR  will not exclude
them.
.BU 
The  default  when no  options  are given will be  \fB-XGPrdfMIBL\fR,  default
options    can   be   set   via   the    find-setup    command    (sets    the
\fB/history/find-com\fR registry entry). 
.BU 
Use of \fB-w\fR on directories searches for \fI<search-pattern>\fR  within the
\*(mE  directory  listing, the command is then the same as 
.Ht grep 3 
except for the output buffer format.  
.BU
String  searches  of \fB-w\fR  are not  performed  on files that exceed  100MB
unless the \fB-u\fR  option is  specified on the command  line. This  prevents
\*(mE from loading exceptionally large files unless explicitly required.
.BE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %xgrep-com 5 ,
.Hr find 1 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Hr grep 1 ,
.Ht xfind 3 ,
.Ht xgrep 3 ,
.Ht rgrep 3 .
.ad
.FH
