.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac039.3,v 2.9 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell
.so me.tni
.TH auto-spell 3
.XI auto-spell - "Auto-spell support"
.XI auto-spell-menu - "Auto-spell context menu"
.XI auto-spell-buffer - "Auto-spell whole buffer"
.XI auto-spell-reset - "Auto-spell hilight reset"
.XI auto-spell-ignore - "Auto-spell ignore current word"
.SH NAME
.Me "|auto-spell"
auto-spell \- Auto-spell support
.br
.Me "|auto-spell-menu"
auto-spell-menu \- Auto-spell context menu
.br
.Me "|auto-spell-buffer"
auto-spell-buffer \- Auto-spell whole buffer
.br
.Me "|auto-spell-reset"
auto-spell-reset \- Auto-spell hilight reset
.br
.Me "|auto-spell-ignore"
auto-spell-ignore \- Auto-spell ignore current word
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBauto-spell\fR
.br
\fBauto-spell-buffer\fR
.br
\fBauto-spell-reset\fR
.br
.I n
\fBauto-spell-ignore\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBauto-spell\fR  enables and disables the auto spell  checking of the current
buffer. Auto spell  detects word breaks as you type and checks the spelling of
every  completed word hilighting any erroneous words in the error color scheme
(usually red).
.PP
The argument \fIn\fR determines  whether  auto-spell is enabled or disabled, a
positive argument enables and a negative argument  disables. If no argument or
\fI0\fR is supplied the auto-spell state is toggled.
.PP
\fBauto-spell-menu\fR  opens the auto-spell context menu which lists suggested
corrections  for the current  word and other  useful  auto-spell  commands and
configuration  options.  This  menu can also be  accessed  via the main  mouse
context menu when the current buffer has auto spell enabled.
.PP
\fBauto-spell-buffer\fR  checks  all  words  within  the  current  buffer  for
spell, hilighting any unknown or miss-spelled words found.
.PP
\fBauto-spell-reset\fR resets the buffer hilighting scheme, removing any added
erroneous words.
.PP
\fBauto-spell-ignore\fR  gets  the  current  word and  deletes  the  erroneous
hilighting  and  adds the word to the  current  temporary  ignore  dictionary,
auto-spell and the  spelling-checker  will now ignore the word. If an argument
\fBn\fR of 2 is given to the  command the word is added to the users  personal
dictionary instead of the temporary ignore dictionary so the word is 'ignored'
in all future sessions of \*(mS as well.
.SH NOTES
\fBauto-spell\fR,    \fBauto-spell-buffer\fR,    \fBauto-spell-reset\fR    and
\fBauto-spell-ignore\fR are macros defined in \fCspellaut.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 ,
.Ht spell 2 .
.ad
.FH
