.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth & Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Mon Aug 31 21:02:32 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac099.3,v 2.10 2026/03/24 21:41:21 dgroth Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH file-exec 3
.XI file-exec - "Executes  the  current  buffer with compiler/interpreter"
.XI file-format - "Format the current buffer using the a formatter"
.XI file-lint - "check the current buffer for problems using a linter"
.XI major-mode-tools-setup - "File major-mode tool setup"
.SH NAME
.Me "|file-exec"
file-exec - Executes the current buffer using a compiler or interpreter
.br
.Me "|file-format"
file-format \- Format the current buffer using a dedicated formatter
.br
.Me "|file-lint"
file-lint \- check the current buffer for problems using a dedicated linter
.br
.Me "|major-mode-tools-setup"
major-mode-tools-setup \- File major-mode tool setup
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfile-exec\fR [ "\fIcommand-line-arguments\fR" ]
.br
\fBfile-format\fR
.br
\fBfile-lint\fR
.br
\fBmajor-mode-tools-setup\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfile-exec\fR macro for interpreted languages executes the current buffer using the command line interpreter
defined for this language. In case of programming languages which needs to be compiled, first the code is compiled to
machine code and then executed. Before the program is executed
.Ht save-some-buffers 2
is executed to allow the user to ensure that all relevant buffers are saved. If bit \fC0x01\fR of the numeric argument
\fIn\fR is clear then all modified buffers are automatically saved, when set (the default) the user is prompted for
each buffer. If bit 0x02 of the numeric argument is clear (the default) the user is prompted for any additional
\fIcommand-line-arguments\fR which are passed to application or the script command. The arguments given are stored in
a buffer variable, and used as the default arguments next time the script is executed.
.PP
After executing the program, an \fC*FHOOK-exec*\fR buffer is opened with the output of the script or program. The
script executes the current buffer if required using the current \*(mS character encodings.
.PP
The  \fBfile-format\fR  macro formats the current buffer using a dedicated 
formatting  tool for the  buffer's  programming  language.  For R for example,
the package `formatR` must be pre-installed
by the user, this is typically done by running `install.packages('formatR')` within an R console.
.PP
The \fBfile-lint\fR macro checks the currently edited file using a language specific linter, for example for R, the
package `lintr` must be installed by the user for instance using the usual `install.packages('lintr)` syntax from
within a R console. 
.PP
The command opens an \fC*FHOOK-lint*\fR buffer with the output from the linter, warnings or styling issues raised are 
typically high-lighted. the buffer is configured to for
.Ht get-next-line 2
to make traverse through the issues as easy as possible.
.SH SETUP
The \fBmajor-mode-tools-setup\fR command can be used to configure the three tools for the current file's major mode, 
this dialog can be accessed by clicking on the bottom left \fBTools\fR button in the
.Ht major-mode-setup 3
dialog. Note, however, that as the tool configurations should work with all files of the same major-mode, the
command-lines should use tags (\fC%\fR\fIl\fR...) rather than literal file names. Of particular importance are the
\fB%f\fR, \fB%p\fR and \fB%"\fR tags, for further details see the documentation for the \fBCommand\fR field of
.Ht file-tool-setup 3 ,
which uses the same format.
.PP
The \fBexec-file\fR command has 3 additional configuration checkboxes; when enabled, \fBRaw output\fR suppresses the 3
line header, which details the location and command-line being run, and stops long lines in the command output from being
wrapped. \fBNo line wrap\fR also stops the wrapping of long lines, but does not suppress the header. When enabled,
\fBSupports buffers\fR indicates that, if the current buffer does not have a file name, the \fBexec-file\fR command
can save the buffer contents to a
.Hl "temporary file" $temp-name 5
and then run the given utility with the temp file. This typically requires the execution process to not be dependent 
on any other local content. Note that the generated temp file is removed 20 seconds after the start of the execution 
so this option should not be used if the execution requires the file to be present for longer.
.PP
For creators of \*(mS file hooks, the file tools can also support the use of multiple interpreters/tools, e.g.
\fCclang\fR and \fCgcc\fR to compile a C file. The configuration of each tool can include tests to verify the
availability of the tool on the current computer as well as the required command-line to run.
.PP
To get the \fBfile-exec\fR, \fBfile-format\fR and \fBfile-lint\fR commands properly working, configuration variables
are typically required for the current buffer's major-mode. For example, the following configuration is taken from
.Hl hkpython.emf python 9 :
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .fhook-python.coms "\\bpython3\\bpython2\\bpython\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.coms-windows "\\b~/AppData/Local/Programs/Python/Python\\\\d+\\\\(-\\\\d+\\\\)?/python.exe\\bC:/Python\\\\d+\\\\(-\\\\d+\\\\)?/python.exe\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.exec1   "\\b%v[com]\\b\\b\\b\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" \\"%p%f\\" %v[args|20|Additional command-line arguments|]\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.format1 "\\bruff\\bruff -h\\b0\\b\\bruff format %\\"%f%\\"\\bRuff\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.format2 "\\b%v[com]\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" -m yapf -h\\b0\\b\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" -m yapf -i %\\"%p%f%\\"\\bYapf\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.format3 "\\b%v[com]\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" -m black -h\\b0\\b\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" -m black -q %\\"%p%f%\\"\\bBlack\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.lint1   "\\bruff\\bruff -h\\b0\\b\\bruff check %\\"%f%\\"\\bRuff\\b"
set-variable .fhook-python.lint2   "\\b%v[com]\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" -m pylint -h\\b0\\b\\b%\\"%v[com]%\\" -m pylint %\\"%p%f%\\"\\bPylint\\b:\\\\d+:\\\\d+: E\\\\d+:\\b:\\\\d+:\\\\d+: W\\\\d+:\\b:\\\\d+:\\\\d+: [CR]\\\\d+:\\b"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Where the \fC.exec#\fR, \fC.format#\fR and \fC.lint#\fR variables configure a tool to use the specified utility, python 
hhas been configured to check for and potentially use 3 different utilities for formatting, \fBfile-format\fR will use 
the first utility found. The format of these variables is as follows:
.CS
|<program>|<test>|<test-success-exit-code>|<path>|<command-line>|<ID>|<err-regex>|<wrn-regex>|<inf-regex>|<flags>|
.CE
Only the \fC<program>\fR and \fC<command-line>\fR parameters are required, \fC<test>\fR and \fC<test-success-exit-code>\fR 
parameters should only be used when the mere presence of the \fC<program>\fR is not a guarantee that the utility is 
fully installed and correctly running. For example, \fBYapf\fR is a python module that must be installed in addition to 
python itself, to the presence of a python script engine, i.e. the \fBpython3\fR program, is no guarantee that the 
yapf module has also been installed. Instead the command "<python> -m yapf -h" and the exit code is tested, \fB0\fR 
being a success.
.SH NOTES
\fBfile-exec\fR, \fBfile-format\fR and \fBfile-lint\fR are macros defined in \fChktools.emf\fR. For programming
lanuages like C++, Fortran and R there are already useful variable defaults defined in the hkHOOK.emf files, the user
can overwrite these settings using \fBmajor-mode-tools-setup\fR.
.PP
The executables or the interpreters will need to be installed in the system path for the commands to function
correctly, otherwise the full path will need to be given in the settings.
.PP
When setting up tools it can be useful to add "\fC%v[<tool>-opts|]\fR" in places where standard options, such as user 
name or server, may need to be supplied. Users can then define a \fB.fhook-<major-mode>.<tools>-opts\fR variable in 
their \fCmy<major-mode>.emf\fR file so they do not have to type these values every time they restart \*(mS. For example, to 
execute an SQL statement in MySql the base server, access and database details are required, rather than require the 
user to supply this every time the main command can be defined as:
.CS
mysql %v[exec-opts|] %v[exec-args|20|Additional command-line arguments|--host=localhost --user=<user> --password=<passwd> <db-name>] -e 'source %p%f'
.CE
The user can then add the following line to their \fCmysql.emf\fR file:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .fhook-sql.exec-opts "--host=localhost --user=JDOE --password=12345"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
So the base DB access is pre-defined and only the database name is required, a better default can also be supplied by 
adding:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .fhook-sql.exec-args "MYDB"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The user will still be prompted, but the default is now likely to be correct. The user can avoid being prompted by 
defining the variable \fCvar-name\fR\fB-np\fR ('np' = no-prompt), i.e. adding:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .fhook-sql.exec-args-np "MYDB"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Would define the database name and stop the prompting. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Ht file-tool-setup 3 ,
.Ht major-mode-setup 3
.Ht c 9 ,
.Ht cpp 9 ,
.Ht f90 9 ,
.Ht go 9 ,
.Ht pas 9 ,
.Ht perl 9 ,
.Ht py 9 ,
.Ht r 9 ,
.Ht tcl 9 .
.FH
