.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac018.3,v 2.8 2025/03/26 11:59:28 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH insert-template 3
.XI insert-template - "Insert template file into current buffer"
.XI %company-ref 5 "Company reference template"
.SH NAME
.Me "|insert-template"
insert-template \- Insert template file into current buffer
.br
.Me "|%company-ref"
%company-ref \- Company reference template
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBinsert-template\fR [ "\fItemplate\fR" ]
.br
\fB%company-ref\fR "\fIstring\fR" ; See $COMPANY_REF$ below for default when undefined
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinsert-template\fR is generally called by file hooks when the new buffer has been created as opposed to loaded from
a file (see
.Ht $buffer-fhook 5 ).
.PP
\fBinsert-template\fR uses
.Ht &find 4
to locate and insert the required "\fItemplate\fR.etf" file. If successful, \fBinsert-template\fR then replaces the
following strings in the template:
.IP \fC$ASCII_TIME$\fR
To the current time. Inserts the output of
.Ht ascii-time 3 .
The default format of the time string may be changed by setting variable 
.Ht %ascii-time 5 .
.IP \fC$COMPANY_NAME$\fR
To the value of
.Ht %company-name 5 ,
or, if not defined, to the value used for \fC$USER_NAME$\fR. \fB%company-name\fR is
usually set up in the company setup file defined in User setup.
.IP \fC$COMPANY_REF$\fR
This is set to either "\fC$COMPANY_NAME$\fR (\fC$COMPANY_URL$\fR)" if the \fB%company-url\fR is defined, or simply 
"\fC$COMPANY_NAME$\fR" if not, the tags are then replaced as defined in this help. The value can be altered by setting 
the \fB%company-ref\fR variable.
.IP \fC$COMPANY_URL$\fR
To the value of
.Ht %company-url 5 ,
or if not defined to an empty string (i.e. ""). \fB%company-url\fR is usually set up in the company setup file defined
in User setup.
.IP \fC$FILE_NAME$\fR
To the buffer name which is typically the buffer's file name without a path. A trailing "\fI<##>\fR" string (used to
make the buffer name unique) is removed. 
.IP \fC$FILE_BASENAME$\fR
To the buffer name, which is typically the buffer's file name without a path, and without the file extension. A 
trailing "\fI<##>\fR" string is removed before the extension is removed. 
.IP \fC$FILE_NAME_UD$\fR
Same as \fB$FILE_NAME$\fP, but with the name capitalized and '.'s are replaced with '_'.
.IP \fC$USER_NAME$\fR
To the value of the registry entry "\fC/history/user-name\fR", or if not defined to the value "\fC<unknown>\fR". The
user name is usually set up in the User setup dialog.
.IP \fC$YEAR$\fR
To the current year (4 digit number).
.IP \fC$CURSOR$\fR
To leave the cursor at this point, only one of these tokens should be used in the template and the token is removed.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the values are defined as follows:
.IP "\fI0\fR \fBinsert-template\fR"
Inserts the default template for the current file hook, for example if the current file is a \*(mS macros file the 
hook will be \fCfhook-emf\fR so this will insert "\fCemf.etf\fR".
.IP "\fI0\fR \fBinsert-template\fR '\fC<template-name>\fR'"
In this form "\fC<template-name>\fR" must be given in the execution line, i.e. will not be prompted for, and only the
.Ht &find 4
macro function is used to locate the template file, this will include the
.Ht $user-path 5
and the other paths on the
.Ht $search-path 5
but will not include directory "\fC$user-path/<fhook>/\fR", see next option.
.IP "\fBinsert-template\fR '\fC<template-name>\fR'"
When no argument is supplied, the file of the given template is first search for within the directory 
"\fC$user-path/<fhook>/\fR" and only if not found will it then use the
.Ht &find 4
macro function to locate the file.
.IP "\fI#\fR \fBinsert-template\fR"
When \fBn\fR is non-zero \fBinsert-template\fR inserts the template matching "\fC$user-path/<fhook>/#_<name>.etf\fR"
where'\fC#\fR' can be prefixed with zeros, i.e. '\fC3 insert-template\fR' would insert templates \fC3_test.etf\fR or
\fC003_hello.etf\fR if located in the correct directory. If multiple files match this base criteria the first file
will be inserted.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is taken from  hkmake.emf  and inserts the  "\fImakefile.etf\fR"
template if the buffer has been created. 
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro fhook-make
    ; if arg is 0 this is a new file so add template 
    !if &not @#
        insert-template "makefile"
    !endif
    set-variable $buffer-hilight .hilight.make
    -1 buffer-mode "tab"		; Normal tabs please !!!
    1 buffer-mode "indent"
    1 buffer-mode "time"
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
\fBinsert-template\fR is a macro defined in \fCetfinsrt.emf\fR.
.PP
.Ht magic 2m
mode is always used to perform the the  search/replace  so the replace strings
should be appropriate for \fBmagic\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %ascii-time 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-fhook 5 ,
.Ht %company-name 5 ,
.Ht %company-url 5 ,
.Ht &find 4 ,
.Ht ascii-time 3 .
.ad
.FH
