.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac090.3,v 2.1 2022/02/05 14:51:30 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.so me.tni
.TH replace-string-in-files 3
.XI replace-string-in-files - "Search and replace strings across files"
.XI query-replace-string-in-files - "Conditionally search and replace strings across files"
.SH NAME
replace-string-in-files \- Search and replace strings across files
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B replace-string-in-files
"\|\fIfrom-pattern\fR\|"
"\|\fIto-pattern\fR\|"
.br
.RS
"[\fIfind-options\fR] <\fIfile-mask\fR> [\fIfile-mask\fR] ..."
["\|\fIstarting-path\fR\|"]
.br
.RE
.sp
.B query-replace-string-in-files
"\|\fIfrom-pattern\fR\|"
"\|\fIto-pattern\fR\|"
.br
.RS
"[\fIfind-options\fR] <\fIfile-mask\fR> [\fIfile-mask\fR] ..."
["\|\fIstarting-path\fR\|"]
.br
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B replace-string-in-files
performs a search for a  \fIfrom-pattern\fR  and  replaces  the string with  \fIto-pattern\fR  in all files that match
\fIfile-mask\fR  in the current  directory (or from  \fIstarting-path\fR\|)  using built in \*(mS commands rather than
relying on any external executables such as
.Hr grep 1 .
.PP
.B query-replace-string-in-files
is identical to
.B replace-string-in-files
except the user is prompted to accept each potential replacement.
.IP "\fIfind-options\fR"
Defines the \fIoptions\fR that are given to the underlying call to the
.Ht grep 3
command, the default options may also be defined with the
.Ht find-setup 3
command  invoked from the command line or from the the  \fBTools\fR  menu. The
\fIfind-options\fR are defined as follows:
.RS
.BP "--"
Last option, the following string must be the first \fIfile-mask\fR which may start with a '-'.
.BP "-a"
Re-read all out of date buffers, prevents a manual prompt, equivalent of Yes to all. This is the inverse of \fB-o\fR
.BP "-b"
Ignore binary files.
.BP "-B"
Do not ignore binary files (not advisable as this is a text based search and replace operation).
.BP "-c"
Command return the number of matchs found/replaced rather than the default, which is simply 0 for one or more matches or
1 if no matches were found/replaced.
.BP "-C"
Command returns 0 (non-error for command-line tool) regardless of if it finds any matches.
.BP "-g"
File masks are regex (i.e. .*\.emf)
.BP "-G"
File masks are not regex (i.e. *.emf)
.BP "-i"
Ignore search pattern case (case insensitive).
.BP "-I"
Do not ignore search pattern case (case sensitive).
.BP "-l"
Use existing buffer of loaded files.
.BP "-L"
Do not use existing buffer of loaded files.
.BP "-m"
Search pattern is a regular expression.
.BP "-M"
Search pattern is not a regular expression.
.BP "-o"
Do not re-read all out of date buffers,  prevents a manual prompt,  equivalent
of No to all. This is the inverse of \fB-a\fR.
.BP "-p"
Starting path specified
.BP "-P"
Starting path not specified
.BP "-q"
Enables quiet mode for reduced print-out.
.BP "-r"
Recurse into sub-directories
.BP "-R"
Do not recurse into sub-directories
.IP "\fB-S\fR \fI<size>\fR"
File size - less than or equal, the following size formats are supported:
.RS
.LP
\fB-S\fR \fI<number>\fR
.\"
File size specified bytes.
.LP
\fB-S\fR \fI<number>\fR\|\fBk\fR
.\"
File size specified in Kilobytes.
.RE
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fI<size>\fR"
File size greater than; supported size formats are the same as \fB-S\fR.
.IP "\fB-T\fR \fI<time>\fR"
Modification time - older than, the following time formats are supported:
.RS
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyy-mm-dd\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyyyy-mm-dd\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIdays\fR
.\"
Offset time in days from  midnight  this  morning, e.g. \fB-T 0\fR would match
all files not modified today.
.LP
\fB-T \fIdays.hours[.minutes[.seconds]]\fR
.\"
Offset time in , e.g.
.B "-T 1.1.30"
matches all files 25 hours and 30 minutes old.
.RE
.IP
Note that \fB-T 1\fR is not the same as \fB-T 1.0\fR, except at midnight.
.IP "\fB-t\fR \fI<time>\fR"
Modification  time - newer than or equal,  supported time formats are the same
as \fB-T\fR.
.BP "-u"
When used with \fB-w\fR, allows the file size limit of 100MB to be disabled and
strings are searched in files of any size.
.BP "-U"
When used with \fB-U\fR,  files are limited in size 100MB  otherwise they will
not be searched.
.IP "\fB-w\fR \fI<search-pattern>\fR"
File must contain a string matching the given \fIsearch-pattern\fR.
.IP "\fB-W\fR \fI<search-pattern>\fR"
File must not contain a string matching the given \fIsearch-pattern\fR.
.BP "-x"
Use \*(mE
.Ht $file-ignore 5
to exclude unimportant files
.BP "-X"
Do not use \*(mE
.Ht $file-ignore 5 .
.BP "-&"
Launch command using a separate process, this stops the current  MicroEmacs hanging during the replace process which can
be useful for time consuming searches, not supported by \fBquery-replace-string-in-files\fR.
.RE
.IP "\fIfile-mask\fR"
The files to search for e.g. \fB*.txt\fR
.IP "\fIstarting-path\fR"
Specifies the directory  location where the search should  commence when the \fB-p\fP option is used, the default when
\fB-p\fP is omitted is the location of the current buffer.
.SH NOTES
.BS
The  location of the find  options in the 3rd  argument  may seem odd, but the
command  is  not  required  to  have  a  single  \fI<options>\fR  \fI<from>\fR
\fI<to>\fR \fI<mask>\fR  interface  as this becomes  unwieldy.
.BU
The default when no options are given is \fB-XGPRDfMIbL\fR, default options may
be set via the
.Ht find-setup 3
command (sets \fB/history/rsif-com\fR registry entry).
.BU
The \fB-d\fR option is not supported as
.Ht find 3
and error is reported if supplied.
.BU
It may be advantageous to enable the \fB-l\fR option default using
.Ht find-setup 3 .
.\" Should  the -x option  automatically  ignore  auto-save  files if it is an
.\" auto-save of a file currently loaded and edited in the current ME session?
.\" I think it should as this is more logical behaviour.
.BU
Use of \fB-w\fR is supported  and is separate  from the  \fI<from-pattern>\fR,
i.e. this  option  can still be used to filter  the files to operate  on.
.BU
\fB-w\fR  shares the  \fB-m\fR  and \fB-i\fR  options, i.e if \fB-m\fR is used
both the \fI<from-pattern>\fR and the \fI<search-pattern>\fR must be a regular
expression pattern.
.BE 0
.PP
The other options of the underlying
.Ht find 3
command are allowed but provide no benefit to these commands.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hr find 1 ,
.Hr grep 1 ,
.Ht find 3 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht find-setup 3 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Hr grep 1 ,
.Ht xfind 3 ,
.Ht xgrep 3 ,
.Ht rgrep 3 .
.ad
.FH
