.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac075.3,v 2.3 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|shell
.so me.tni
.TH xfind 3
.XI xfind - "Execute find command"
.XI %xfind-com 5 "Find command line"
.SH NAME
xfind \- Execute find command
.br
%xfind-com \- Find command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|xfind"
.I n
.B xfind
"\fIbase-path\fR" "\fIfile-search\fR"
.sp
.B %xfind-com
"\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fCfind\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xfind
executes the
.Hr find 1
command with the  command line set by the
.Ht %xfind-com 5
variable and the user supplied  \fIbase-path\fR and \fIfile-search\fR  regular
expression.  The output of the command is piped into the  \fB*find*\fR  buffer.
.PP
If an argument is given then a
.Ht pipe-shell-command 2
is used instead of
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ,
this is useful when used in macros as it ensures that  \fBfind\fR has finished
before the command returns.
.PP
The find command is specified by the macro variable
.B %xfind-com
if not  defined  the  default  \fCfind\fR  is used.  The  command  line run by
\fBxfind\fR is
.IP
\fI%xfind-com\fR -name "\fIbase-path\fR" -name "\fIfile-search\fR" -print
.LP
The resultant files found are displayed in the \fB*find*\fR  buffer and may be
selected by  double-clicking  with the mouse left button or selecting the line
with a \fC<RETURN>\fR. The selected file under the cursor is loaded.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  \fBxfind\fR command does not typically  need to be set up in  \s-1UNIX\s0
environments.  In the  Microsoft  Windows  environment  then  the  \s-1UNIX\s0
\fItools for Windows\fR are recommended, available from:
.IP
http://unxutils.sourceforge.net/
.LP
The \fBxfind\fR command may be set up in the startup files as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %xfind-com "c:/usr/local/wbin/find.exe"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %xgrep-com 5 ,
.Hr find 1 ,
.Ht find 3 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Hr grep 1 ,
.Ht xfind 3 ,
.Ht xgrep 3 ,
.Ht rgrep 3 .
.ad
.FH
