.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac098.3,v 2.2 2024/12/16 19:25:06 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH change-company 3
.XI change-company - "Change current company profile"
.XI %company-name 5 "Name of company for template"
.XI %company-url 5 "Company URL for template"
.SH NAME
.Me "|change-company"
change-company \- Change current company profile"
.br
.Me "|%company-name"
%company-name \- Name of company for template
.br
.Me "|%company-url"
%company-url \- Company URL for template
.br
.Me "|%company-license"
%company-license \- Company copyright license for template
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B change-company
"\fIcompanyName\fR"
.br
\fB%company-name\fR "\fIstring\fR" ; Default is ""
.br
\fB%company-url\fR "\fIstring\fR" ; Default is ""
.br
\fB%company-license\fR "\fIstring\fR" ; Default is "\fIAll rights reserved.\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchange-company\fR changes the current company profile \fIcompanyName\fR by executing the macro file 
\fCcompanyName.emf\fR, this file is typically referred to as \fI<company>\fR.emf. If the file does not exist it is 
created with a base company template.
.PP
The \fI<company>\fR.emf macro file is used to define company related things such as company template information and supporting 
macros. The file will typically define values for the following variables:
.IP \fB%company-name\fR
Set to the name of the company, this value is used by
.Ht insert-template 3
when replacing tag \fC$COMPANY_NAME$\fR.
.IP \fB%company-url\fR
Set to the main company URL, this value is used by
.Ht insert-template 3
when replacing tag \fC$COMPANY_URL$\fR and to define the default value of \fC$COMPANY_REF$\fR.
.IP \fB%company-license\fR
Set to the text string of the company copyright notice, this value is used by
.Ht insert-template 3
when replacing tag \fC$COMPANY_LICENSE$\fR. The value can contain any other tag, such as \fC$COMPANY_NAME$\fR, as well 
as newline "\fC\\n\fR" characters.
.PP
When \fIcompanyName\fR is not supplied on the execution command-line, \fBchange-company\fR prompts for the company 
name, using the value of
.Ht user-setup 3 's
\fBCompany File\fR, located on the Start-Up page, which can contain a space separated list of companies. The command 
also adds a "\fINo company\fR" option which, if selected, unsets the \fB%company-name\fR variable and sets \fB%company-url\fR to 
the value of \fB%no-company-url\fR and \fB%company-license\fR to \fB%no-company-license\fR.
.SH NOTES
\fBchange-company\fR is a macro defined in \fCtools.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Company Profiles" companyProfiles 2 ,
.Ht insert-template 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.ad
.FH
