.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac077.3,v 2.3 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH watch 3
.XI watch - "Monitor a changing file"
.XI watch-time - "Change the watch command poll time"
.XI watch-reset - "Reset the watch command counters"
.SH NAME
watch \- Watch a file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B watch
.br
.I n
.B watch-reset
.br
.B watch-time
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B watch
monitors  a file on the  file  system  by  periodically  polling  the file and
reacquiring  the  contents  into a buffer. The  command is  typically  used to
monitor  build and logging  files as their output  changes  under control of a
background process. Any number of files may be watched simultaneously, however
to minimize the number of file system  transfers,  only those buffers that are
being viewed in a window are updated.
.PP
.B watch 
operates in three different modes:-
.IP "\fBMode 1 (Reload)\fR"
On a re-fresh the existing buffer is emptied and the file contents are re-read
in their  entirety  from the file system if the file has changed.  This is the
default mode of operation.
.IP "\fBMode 2 (Reload, Append)\fR"
On  enabling  the  watch  then  the  complete  file is  re-read,  changes  are
subsequently  read as deltas from the end of the file. This mode  ensures that
the buffer contents are up to date before incrementally reading the file.
.IP "\fBMode 3 (Append)\fR"
On  enabling  the  watch  then only the end of the file that has not been read
before is  appended  to the end of the buffer.  This method is ideal for large
log files.
.LP
The  operational  mode may be selected by passing a numeric  value of \fC1\fR,
\fC2\fR  or \fC3\fR to the  \fBwatch\fR  command.  If no numeric  argument  is
provided then the user is prompted for the operational mode.
.PP
Whilst  running in an append mode (\fC2\fR or \fC3\fR) then byte offset of the
end of the file is  retained  for the next read. On the next read then any new
information  from the last  saved byte  offset to the end of the file is read,
irrespective of any edits made to the buffer. Therefore if the buffer contents
have been deleted on the next  \fIappend\fR  read then the buffer will contain
the appended  information only and not reacquire the information that has been
deleted. Where the complete buffer is to be re-acquired then use \fBMode 1\fR.
.PP
The buffer mode line is modified to show the watch state. i.e.
.CS
==W <buffer-name> ============== 
.CE
Invocation of 
.B watch
in a buffer  that is being  watched  disables  the watch. All  watches  may be
removed from all buffers using \fC0 watch-reset\fR.
.PP
.B watch-time
modifies  the poll time of a watch. The user is  prompted  for the time period
which is entered in seconds.
.PP
.B watch-reset
re-evaluates the watches that are on the buffers reporting the number of files
that  are  bing  watched.  When  invoked  with a  \fC0\fR  argument  then  any
outstanding watch commands are removed.
.SH NOTES
.B watch
is a macro implemented in \fCwatch.emf\fR.
.PP
The commands 
.B watch-reset 
and 
.B watch-time 
are not available until a 
.B watch
command has been executed.
.SH HISTORY
.B watch 
was developed in 2000 and appeared in \*(mS  releases  after this date however
the comand was not exported to the user. The 
.B watch 
command was fully integrated in the 2005 release.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht osd-search 3 .
.ad
.FH
