.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac012.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|games
.so me.tni
.TH Mahjongg 3
.XI Mahjongg - "\*(mE version of the solitaire Mah Jongg game"
.SH NAME
Mahjongg \- \*(mE version of the solitaire Mah Jongg game
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBMahjongg\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mah Jongg is an ancient Chinese game usually played by four players with tiles
similar  to  dominos.  This  is a \*(mE  version  which  was  inspired  by the
\s-1X-Windows\s0  version of the same game. The  \s-1X-Windows\s0  version for
the  solitaire  game  originally  seen on the  \s-1PC\s0  and later  ported to
\s-1SunView\s0.
.SS "Theory Of Play"
The  object of the game is to remove  all the tiles from the board.  Tiles are
removed by matching two identical tiles which have either an open left edge or
open  right  edge.  The  only   exception  to  this  rule  is  that  any  open
"\fIflower\fR"   tile  (bamboo   \fC[BAMB]\fR,   orchid   \fC[ORCH]\fR,   plum
\fC[PLUM]\fR,   or   chrysanthemum   \fC[CHRY]\fR)   matches  any  other  open
"\fIflower\fR"  tile and any open "\fIseason\fR" tile (spring, summer, autumn,
or winter) matches any other open "\fIseason\fR" tile.
.PP
Tiles are  stacked  on the board, the height of the tile is  indicated  by the
color coding as follows:-
.IP
.nf
\fCLevel 5\fR - White
\fCLevel 4\fR - Red
\fCLevel 3\fR - Yellow
\fCLevel 2\fR - Green
\fCLevel 1\fR - Cyan
.fi
.PP
To remove a pair of tiles,  click the left mouse  button on a tile (which will
show in the  selection  color)  and then  click the left  mouse  button on the
matching  tile. At this  point, both tiles will  disappear  from the board. If
after  selecting  the first tile, you decide  that you don't wish to play that
tile, simply reclick the left button on the selected tile, alternatively click
the right button to deselect any selected tile.
.PP
To the  right of the  board  are a number  of  control  buttons.  To select an
option, click the left mouse button on it.
.IP \fBNEW\fR
Start a new game (keyboard n).
.IP \fBSAME\fR
Start the same game again (keyboard s).
.IP \fBQUIT\fR
Exit the game (keyboard q).
.IP \fBHELP\fR
This help page (keyboard esc h).
.PP
The counter shows the number of remaining  tiles on the board, at the start of
the game there are 144 tiles.
.SH NOTES
Mahjongg is a macro defined in \fCmahjongg.emf\fR.
.PP
Mah Jongg may only be played with a mouse, there is no keyboard  support, with
the exception of the re-start keys.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Thanks to Jeff S. Young who (I think) wrote the  original  X-Windows  version,
and whose manual page formed the basis of this page.
.PP
The  tile  patterns  were  inspired  from the  X-Windows  tile  patterns.  The
X-Windows  tile  patterns  themselves  are  copyright  1988  by  Mark  A. Holm
<tektronix!tessi!exc!markh>.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl Games Games - ,
.Ht Match-It 3 ,
.Ht Patience 3 .
.ad
.FH
