.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac098.3,v 2.2 2026/03/18 23:46:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH copy-file 3
.XI copy-file - "Copy or move files and directories"
.XI delete-file - "Delete files and directories"
.XI delete-file-delayed - "Delete file after a specified delay"
.SH NAME
.Me "|copy-file"
copy-file \- Copy or move files and directories
.br
.Me "|delete-file"
delete-file \- Delete files and directories
.br
.Me "|delete-file-delayed"
delete-file \- Delete file after a specified delay
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B copy-file
"\fIfrom\fR" "\fIto\fR"
.br
.I n
.B delete-file
"\fIfile\fR"
.br
.I n
.B delete-file-delayed
"\fIfile\fR" [ "delay" ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcopy-file\fR copies or moves file or directory \fIfrom\fR to file name or directory \fBto\fR, particular attention
should be paid to the last character of \fBto\fR, as a trailing '\fC/\fR' is assumed to be a destination directory as
opposed to the destination name. For example:
.CS
     copy-file "a/" "b"
.CE    
will copy directory \fCa\fR to \fCb\fR, effectively renaming it, whereas:
.CS
     copy-file "a/" "b/"
.CE
will copy directory \fCa\fR into directory \fCb/\fR. The numeric argument \fIn\fR is used to modify the default
behavior of the command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
wWhen set \fBcopy-file\fR copies \fBfrom\fR, when clear \fBcopy-file\fR moves \fBfrom\fR to \fBto\fR.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user on a file read failure, the copy/move for that file will simply fail.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user on a file create or write failure, the copy/move for that file/directory
will simply fail.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user on a file overwrite issue, 'no' is assumed for all, i.e. no files will 
be overwritten.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user on a file overwrite issue, 'yes' is assumed for all, i.e. any file will 
be overwritten if required.
.IP \fB0x20\fR
When set all intermediate directories are create as required, i.e. if \fBto\fR evaluates to a directory that does not 
currently exist it will be created. If this bit is clear the command will fail if the destination directory does not 
yet exist.
.IP \fB0x40\fR
When set the file name part of \fBfrom\fR is treated as a regular expression, as this can match multiple files 
\fBto\fR must be a directory.
.IP \fB0x80\fR
When set an error is not thrown if \fBfrom\fR does not match a file.
.PP 
\fBdelete-file\fR deletes the given \fBfile\fR or directory. The numeric argument \fIn\fR is used to modify the default
behavior of the command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When set the command will return an error if the given \fBfile\fR does not exist or, if a regex mask (see bit 
\fB0x20\fR below), match at least one file or directory.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the file is trashed first. While this is not guaranteed to put the file beyond recovery it should make it very 
much harder.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user on a delete failure, the delete will simply fail and move on to the next.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user before deleting a read-only file, '\fIno\fR' is assumed and all 
read-only files will be skipped.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
When set the command will not prompt the user before deleting a read-only file, '\fIyes\fR' is assumed and all 
read-only files will be deleted.
.IP \fB0x20\fR
When set the file name part of \fBfile\fR is treated as a regular expression, this can be used to delete multiple 
files.
.IP \fB0x40\fR
When set messages, including errors, are not printed.
.PP
Both commands return 4 counts in
.Ht $result 5
with the form "|\fC<ds#>\fR|\fC<df#>\fR|\fC<fs#>\fR|\fC<ff#>\fR|", a
.Hl "\*(mS list" &lset 4 ,
where the counts are defined as follows:
.IP \fC<ds#>\fR
The number of directories successfully copied, moved or deleted.
.IP \fC<df#>\fR
The number of directories that failed to be copied, moved or deleted.
.IP \fC<fs#>\fR
The number of files successfully copied, moved or deleted.
.IP \fC<ff#>\fR
The number of files that failed to be copied, moved or deleted.
.PP
The \fBdelete-file-delayed\fR command calls \fBdelete-file\fR with the given numeric argument \fIn\fR and \fBfile\fR 
after the given \fBdelay\fR, which is specified in seconds. If \fBn\fR is not specified a default of \fC0x54\fR is used 
which suppresses error messages and will not prompt the user. If the \fBdelay\fR is not specified a default of \fC20\fR 
seconds is used. This command can only be used via macro code, if called directly the macro will simply check if the
time for the next file deletion has be reached, it will not prompt the user for a file to delete.  
.SH NOTES
\fBcopy-file\fR, \fBdelete-file\fR and \fBdelete-file-delayed\fR are macros defined in \fChkdirlst.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht file-op 2 ,
.Ht $result 5 .
.ad
.FH
