.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac013.3,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:10:18 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|games
.so me.tni
.TH Match-It 3
.XI Match-It - "\*(mE version of the Match-It game"
.SH NAME
Match-It \- \*(mE version of the Match-It game
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBMatch-It\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  object of the game is to score the  largest  number of points, to do this
the player must complete as many sheets as possible. A sheet is completed when
all the tiles are  removed  from the board  within  the given time limit - ALL
sheet are  possible.  If the player  fails to remove all the tiles  before the
time  runs out a life is lost, if all  lives  have  been lost then the game is
over.
.PP
Tiles are removed from the board by matching two identical tiles which have an
\&'extraction'  path between them. The only exception to this rule is that any
open  "\fIflower\fR"  tile (bamboo  \fC[BAMB]\fR,  orchid  \fC[ORCH]\fR,  plum
\fC[PLUM]\fR,   or   chrysanthemum   \fC[CHRY]\fR)   matches  any  other  open
"\fIflower\fR"  tile and any open "\fIseason\fR" tile (spring, summer, autumn,
or winter) matches any other open "\fIseason\fR" tile.
.PP
An 'extraction' path is a straight line which uses 2 or less right angles, the
following are legal extraction paths, '\fC*\fR's denote the right angles:
.CS
                A---*       *-----*     A----*
    A----A          A       AXXXXXA     XXXXX|
                                        A----*
.CE
The following are illegal paths:
.CS
    *----*          *---*
    AXXXX|          |XXXA
    XXXXA*      A---*XXXX
.CE
2 points  are added to the score  whenever a pair is  successfully  removed, a
point is deducted whenever a pair is selected which can not be removed because
there is no valid extraction path. There are 2 aids, pressing the right button
on a tile when no other tile is  selected  will  hilight all tiles of matching
type, this costs 4 points. The other help is  activated by a button at the top
right of the screen and it removes a random  removable  pair (or  informs  the
user that there are no removable  pairs), there are a limited  number of these
helps.
.PP
At the end of a successful  sheet the score is increased be the time left, the
number of lives and helps  remaining and by the Pedigree and Internal  bonuses
if they were  achieved.
.PP
The Pedigree  bonus is obtained when only identical  tiles are paired, i.e. no
differing flowers or seasons were paired, 50 points are awarded when achieved.
Its status is  indicated by a 'P' to the left of the 'Help' button and the top
of the window.
.PP
The  internal  bonus is  obtained  when the outer 4 margins are not used. If
the left or right margins are not used then 10 points are awarded for each, if
the top or bottom are not used then 20 points are awarded for each and if none
are used then 400  points are  awarded!  The status on the  Internal  bonus is
indicated by an '\fCI\fR'  surrounded by '\fC*\fR's, one for each margin. This
can be found next to the Pedigree bonus '\fCP\fR'.
.SH "GAME CONTROLS"
To the right of the high  score  table on the main menu  there are a number of
control buttons. To select an option, click the left mouse button on it.
.IP \fBNEW\fR
Start a new game.
.IP \fBQUIT\fR
Exit Match-It.
.IP \fBHELP\fR
This help page (keyboard esc h).
.PP
During a sheet, to remove a pair of tiles,  click the left  mouse  button on a
tile  (which will show in the  selection  color) and then click the left mouse
button on the  matching  tile. At this point, if the tiles can be removed, the
extraction  path is drawn and both  tiles  will  disappear  from the board. If
after  selecting  the first tile, you decide  that you don't wish to play that
tile, simply reclick the left button on the selected tile, alternatively click
the right button to deselect any selected tile.
.PP
To the top right of the sheet there are a number of control buttons:-
.IP \fBHELP\fR
Removes a tile pair.
.IP \fBQUIT\fR
Exit the game.
.IP \fBBOSS\fR
Hides Match-It, also acts as a pause. Execute  Match-It again to return to the
game.
.PP
The top left shows the number of remaining lives, the current sheet level, the
current  score, time  remaining  for the  current  sheet and the status of the
Internal and Pedigree bonuses.
.SH NOTES
Match-It is a macro defined in \fCmatchit.emf\fR.
.PP
Match-It may only be played with a mouse, there is no keyboard  support, with
the exception of the re-start keys.
.PP
The sheet database file matchit.edf must be accessible for Match-It to work.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl Games Games - ,
.Ht Mahjongg 3 ,
.Ht Metris 3 .
.ad
.FH
