.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac071.3,v 2.2 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH change-font-size 3
.XI change-font-size - "Incrementally change font size"
.SH NAME
change-font-size \- Incrementally change font size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBchange-font-size\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B change-font-size
incrementally  increases,  decrease or resets the size of the display  font. The numeric  argument  \fBn\fR is used to
determine the action required, a \fB+ve\fR  argument will increase the font size, \fB\-ve\fR will decrease and \fB0\fR
or no argument will reset the size.
.PP
The size of \fBn\fR is important, a value of \fB+2\fR will increase the font size at twice the rate of \fB+1\fR.
.PP
When using a relatively  small text size it is often  desirable to use good bitmap based fonts as these typically offer
greater clarity, for example  ProggyFonts  (\fIhttp://www.proggyfonts.net/\fR)  are small yet very clear. However these
fonts do not typically scale well. To address this issue set the \fB.change-font.sz-font\fR command variable to a font
name that should be used when changing the font size. For example, on UNIX this could be set to:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .change-font.sz-font "-*-fixed-medium-r-*-*-%d-*-*-*-*-*-iso8859-*"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
On Windows the following could be used:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .change-font.sz-font "Consolas"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
When this variable is used the first call to \fBchange-font-size\fR  often leads to a greater size change than desired
as the new font sizing may differ, however this can then be adjusted via subsequent call to the command. When the font
size is reset, by giving no numeric  argument  or an  argument  of \fB0\fR, the font as well as the font size is reset
back to their original values.
.SH "NOTES"
The implementation of \fBchange-font-size\fR is platform specific, on Windows the macro is defined in
\fCwindows.emf\fR and for UNIX systems it is defined in \fCunixterm.emf\fR. Both variant rely on the
.Ht change-font 2
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht change-font 2 .
.ad
.FH
