.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth & Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Mon Aug 31 21:02:32 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac101.3,v 2.10 2025/01/15 01:38:16 dgroth Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH py-doc 3
.XI py-doc - "Display Python manual page"
.XI py-exec - "Executes the current Python buffer"
.XI py-format - "Format the current Python buffer"
.XI py-lint - "Check the current Python buffer using lint"
.XI %python-com 5 "Python command line path"
.XI %py-format-opts 5 "Python format command options"
.XI %py-lint-opts 5 "Python lint format options"
.SH NAME
.Me "|py-doc"
py-doc \- Display Python manual page"
.br
.Me "|py-exec"
py-exec - Executes the current Python buffer
.br
.Me "|py-format"
py-format \- Format the current Python buffer
.br
.Me "|py-lint"
py-lint \- Check the current Python buffer using lint
.br
.Me "|%python-com"
\&%python-com \- Python command line path
.br
.Me "|%py-format-opts"
\&%py-format-opts \- Python format command options
.br
.Me "|%py-lint-opts"
\&%py-lint-opts \- Python lint command options
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBpy-doc\fR "\fIman-page\fR"
.sp
.I n
\fBpy-exec\fR [ "\fIcommand-line-arguments\fR" ]
.br
.I n
\fBpy-format\fR [ "\fIformat-options\fR" ]
.br
.I n
\fBpy-lint\fR [ "\fIlint-options\fR" ]
.sp
\fB%python-com\fR \fIstring\fR; Default is "\fCpython3\fR"
.br
\fB%py-format-opts\fR \fIstring\fR; Default is "\fCyapf -i\fR" or "\fCblack -q\fR"
.br
\fB%py-lint-opts\fR \fIstring\fR; Default is ""
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpy-doc\fR provides a mechanism to display a Python manual page within \*(mS. On invoking \fBpy-doc\fR the
user is prompted for the name of the manual page to display:-
.CS
Python help on ?
.CE
The command invokes
.Hr Python 1
using the \fBpydoc\fR module to generate the requested manual page in a "*py-doc*" buffer. This buffer supports
.Ht item-list 3
to help browse the content generated.
.PP
The \fBpy-exec\fR macro executes the current buffer using the Python command line interpreter. Before the script is executed
.Ht save-some-buffers 2
is executed to allow the user to ensure that all relevant buffers are saved. If bit \fC0x01\fR of the numeric argument
\fIn\fR is clear then all modified buffers are automatically saved, when set (the default) the user is prompted for
each buffer. If bit 0x02 of the numeric argument is clear (the default) the user is prompted for any additional
\fIcommand-line-arguments\fR which are passed to the Python command. The arguments given are stored in a buffer variable,
\fB:py-exec-args\fR, and used as the default arguments next time the script is executed.
.PP
After executing the script, a \fC*py-exec*\fR buffer is opened with the output of the script execution.
.PP
The \fBpy-format\fR macro formats the current buffer using either \fByapf\fR or \fBblack\fR Python formatters, you can
usually  install  these modules using your system  package  manager or using  python's pip package  manager. \*mS will
attempt to identify  which  formatter is installed and and configure  \fBpy-format\fR  to use it, however the variable
\fB%py-format-opts\fR  can be used to override  this. If bit \fC0x02\fR of the numeric  argument  \fBn\fR is set or 
the variable is undefined the user is prompted to adjust the options before executing the format command.
.PP
The  \fBpy-lint\fR  macro invokes  Python's lint module to check the current  buffer for any issues, the pylint module
must be installed before using this command.
.PP
The command opens a \fC*py-lint*\fR buffer with the output from pylint, any warnings or styling issues raised are 
typically high-lighted. the buffer is configured to for
.Ht get-next-line 2
to make traverse through the issues as easy as possible.
.PP
The \fB%py-lint-opts\fR variable can be used to configure \fBpy-lint\fR to the format/style you require, if the
variable is undefined, or bit \fC0x02\fR of the numeric argument \fBn\fR is set, the user is prompted to adjust the
options before executing \fBpylint\fR.
.SH NOTES
\fBpy-doc\fR, \fBpy-exec\fR, \fBpy-format\fR and \fBpy-lint\fR are macros defined in \fCpytools.emf\fR.
.PP
These  commands  all use  \fB%python-com\fR  to launch  Python, if the  variable  is not  defined  \*(mS  attempts  to
auto-configure by first searching for a \fBpython3\fR executable, then \fBpython2\fR before finally searching for \fBpython\fR.
If Python is not in the path, or a different command is used, set the \fB%python-com\fR user variable to the command needed to
run Python.
.PP
On Windows, the \fB%python-com\fR variable is typically set to the full path to the Python interpreter within the
program files directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hr python 1 ,
.Hr man 1 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Ht py 9 .
.ad
.FH
