.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac065.3,v 2.2 2004-01-17 22:27:28 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.ds C0 "(\fB\*cs\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*cr\fR)\ \&
.ds C2 "(\fB\*(cXs\fR)\ \&
.ds C3 "(\fB\*(cXr\fR)\ \&
.ds C4 "(\fB\*cn\fR)\ \&
.ds C5 "(\fB\*cp\fR)\ \&
.ds C6 "(\fB\*cn\fR)\ \&
.ds C7 "(\fB\*cp\fR)\ \&
.ds C8 "(\fB\*(cX\*cs\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH page-file 3
.XI page-file - "Load a large file in page mode" command|file
.XI page-bfile - "Load a large binary file as binary data" command|file
.XI page-file-save-buffer - "\*(C8Save contents of a page mode buffer to file" command|file
.XI page-file-beginning-of-buffer - "Move to the start of the paged file" command|cursor
.XI page-file-end-of-buffer - "Move to the end of the paged file" command|cursor
.XI page-file-goto-byte - "Page to the buffer byte offset" command|cursor
.XI page-file-goto-page - "Move to page" command|cursor
.XI page-file-scroll-down - "\*(C6Scroll paged buffer down" command|window
.XI page-file-scroll-up - "\*(C7Scroll paged buffer up" command|window
.XI page-file-forward-line - "\*(C4Move forwards one line in paged buffer" command|cursor
.XI page-file-backward-line - "\*(C5Move backwards one line in paged buffer" command|cursor
.XI page-file-search-forward - "\*(C2Page search for a string in the forward direction" command|search
.XI page-file-search-backward - "\*(C3Page search for a string in the backward direction" command|search
.XI page-file-isearch-forward - "\*(C0Page search forward incrementally (interactive)" command|search
.XI page-file-isearch-backward - "\*(C1Page search backwards incrementally (interactive)" command|search
.SH NAME
.Me "|page-file"
page-file \- Load a large file in page mode.
.br
.Me "|page-bfile"
page-bfile \- Load a large binary file as binary data.
.br
.Me "|page-file-save-buffer"
page-file-save-buffer \- Save contents of a page mode buffer to file.
.br
.Me "|page-file-beginning-of-buffer"
page-file-beginning-of-buffer \- Move to the start of the paged file.
.br
.Me "|page-file-save-buffer"
page-file-end-of-buffer \- Move to the end of the paged file.
.br
.Me "|page-file-goto-byte"
page-file-goto-byte \- Page to the buffer byte offset.
.br
.Me "|page-file-goto-page"
page-file-goto-page \- Move to page.
.br
.Me "|page-file-scroll-down"
page-file-scroll-down \- Scroll paged buffer down.
.br
.Me "|page-file-scroll-up"
page-file-scroll-up \- Scroll paged buffer up.
.br
.Me "|page-file-forward-line"
page-file-forward-line \- Move forwards one line in paged buffer.
.br
.Me "|page-file-backward-line"
page-file-backward-line \- Move backwards one line in paged buffer.
.br
.Me "|page-file-search-forward"
page-file-search-forward \- Search for a string in the forward direction. 
.br
.Me "|page-file-search-backward"
page-file-search-backward \- Search for a string in the backward direction. 
.br
.Me "|page-file-isearch-forward"
page-file-isearch-forward \- Search forward incrementally (interactive).
.br
.Me "|page-file-isearch-backward"
page-file-isearch-backward \- Search backwards incrementally (interactive)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B page-file
"\fIfile-name\fR"
.br
.B page-bfile
.I file-name 
.sp
.B page-file-save-buffer
\*(C8
.sp
.B page-file-beginning-of-buffer
.br
.B page-file-end-of-buffer
.br
.B page-file-goto-byte
.I byte-offset
.br
.B page-file-goto-page
.I page-offset
.sp
.I n
.B page-file-scroll-down
\*(C6
.br
.I n
.B page-file-scroll-up
\*(C7
.sp
.I n
.B page-file-forward-line
\*(C4
.br
.I n
.B page-file-backward-line
\*(C5 
.sp
.B page-file-search-forward
\*(C2
.br
.B page-file-search-backward
\*(C3
.br
.B page-file-isearch-forward
\*(C0
.br
.B page-file-isearch-backward
\*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.B page-file
commands allow large files, up to 2GB in size, to be viewed and edited.  
.B page-file
operates by loading a small part (or
.IR page )
of the file into a buffer for viewing and editing  hence the whole file is not
loaded  into  memory. The file may be viewed and edited  while in a page mode,
\*(mS automatically manages the page swapping and updates to the file.
.PP
While a file is being paged
then a  replacement  set of commands are used to navigate  through the buffer.
These replacement  commands  automatically load the next page into the
buffer, discarding or saving any edits from existing pages. 
.SS "File Loading"
.B page-file
finds the named file  \fIfile-name\fR. If it is already in a buffer, make that
buffer active in the current window, otherwise  attempt to create a new paged buffer
and read the file  into it.  Syntax  hilighting  is  available  following  any
file loading.
.B  page-file 
is the paged equivalent of 
.Ht find-file 2 . 
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If the file does not exist and this bit is not set the  command  fails at this
point.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht binary 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBbinary\fR  mode for more  information on editing
binary data files.
.PP
.B page-bfile
loads a file as  binary  data,  providing  binary  editing  capabilities.  The
command operate as command
.Ht page-file 3
except that it loads the given  file with
.Ht binary 2m
mode set.
.SS "Saving"
.B page-file-save-buffer
saves the contents of the current  buffer if the contents  have been  changed,
writing the buffer back to the file it was read from. This command is the same as 
.Ht save-buffer 2
for a paged file.
.SS "Navigation"
.B page-file-beginning-of-buffer
moves to the beginning of the buffer. If any edits have been  performed at the
current  viewing  position  that need to be saved then the user is prompted to
save the  changes and the new pages are loaded from the file at the  beginning
of the buffer.
.PP
.B page-file-end-of-buffer
moves to the end of the buffer in a similar way to  
.BR page-file-beginning-of-buffer .
.PP
.B page-file-goto-byte
advances the buffer to the byte offset specified by
.IR byte-offset .
If any edits have been performed at the current viewing  position that need to
be saved then the user is  prompted  to save the changes and the new pages are
loaded from the file at the specified file byte offset.
.PP
.B page-file-goto-page
advances the buffer to the page offset specified by
.IR byte-offset .
The behavior is the same as 
.BR page-file-goto-byte .
.PP
.B page-file-scroll-up
and 
.B page-file-scroll-down
moves the window in the current buffer down by \fIn\fR lines, the default when
\fIn\fR  is  omitted is 1 windows  worth of lines i.e. a next page  operation.
The user is prompted to save changes if a file paging operation is performed.
.PP
.B page-file-forward-line
moves the  cursor  down  \fIn\fR  lines,  default 1. If the line is not on the
current screen then display the next page and move to the line. Similarly 
.B page-file-backward-line
moves the cursor up \fIn\fR  lines, if the line is not on the  current  screen
then  display the previous  page and move to the line. The user is prompted to
save changes if a file paging operation is performed.
.SS "Searching"
.B page-file-search-forward
and 
.B page-file-search-backward
searches for a string from the current cursor position to the end/start of the
file and is simular to 
.Ht search-forward 2 
and 
.Ht search-backward 2 ,
respectively. If the search string is not found in the current buffer then the
search  continues  by  paging  the file  until  the  start/end  of the file is
reached. The user is prompted to save  changes if a file paging  operation  is
performed.
.PP
.B page-file-isearch-forward
and
.B page-file-isearch-backward
perform and incremental  forward and backward search in the paged file and are
similar to 
.Ht isearch-forward 2 
and 
.Ht isearch-backward 2 ,
respectively. If the search string is not found in the current buffer then the
search  continues  by  paging  the file  until  the  start/end  of the file is
reached.  The  user is  prompted  to page and save  changes  if a file  paging
operation is performed.
.SH NOTES
The 
.B page-file
macros are implemented in macro file \fCpagefile.emf\fR. The paging is managed
in macro space and uses 
.Ht insert-file 2
to perform the read.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht find-bfile 3 , 
.Ht find-file 2 , 
.Ht isearch-backward 2 ,
.Ht isearch-forward 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht search-backward 2 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.rm C2
.rm C3
.rm C4
.rm C5
.rm C6
.rm C7
.rm C8
.FH
