.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac081.3,v 2.3 2006-09-04 16:25:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|scuts
.so me.tni
.TH read-session 3
.XI read-session - "Read in session information"
.SH NAME
read-session \- Read in session information
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B read-session
[ "\fIsession-file\fR" ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B read-session
reads in a \*(mE  session file, setting the current  session  information.  If
argument  \fBn\fR is not given then the given  "\fIsession-file\fR"  is simply
read in. If a non-zero  argument is specified  then default  session is set to
the given file-name and the file is read. If an argument of zero is given then
the  default  session is  re-read.  Information  read in (and saved)  from the
history file includes:-
.BS
Searching and replacing history.
.BU
Buffer name history.
.BU
Command name history.
.BU
File name history.
.BU
General (all the rest) history.
.BU
Buffer and file list with line numbers.
.BE
\*(mE's  environment  may be retained  almost intact by the use of the default
session and using the \fB-c\fR (continue)  command-line  option to re-load all
files that were being edited in a previous session.
.PP
On  loading  a new  session  then  the user is  prompted  to save the  current
session.  If the  numeric  argument  is zero (bit 0 is 0) then the user is not
prompted and the  \fIsession-file\fR is effectively loaded and merged into the
current session.
.SH NOTES
When running  multiple \*(mE sessions on the same  work-station  (or different
workstations  sharing the same home  directory), the default  history is saved
when \*(mE exits. As a result the last \*(mE sessions that  terminates  writes
the history information used next time.
.PP
The session information is saved in a registry format file (see
.Ht esf 8 ).
Reference should be made to the notes included in
.Ht erf 8
as to how the  history  file may be  edited  and  effected  in the same  \*(mE
session.
.PP
The user may now have multiple sessions, this is useful when one is working on
different  projects, the sessions are created using
.Ht save-session 3
using a new session name.  Starting the editor with a different  session means
that the hilighting  scheme may be different  between different  sessions i.e.
"\fIBlue\fR \fIHue\fR" and "\fISherwoord\fR \fIForest\fR". Note that the color
scheme should be changed with
.Ht change-scheme 3
and not with
.Ht user-setup 3
if different  sessions are to use different  color schemes.
.SS "Command Line"
Reading a session is generally performed when a \*(mS session is started using
the  "\fB-c\fR"  command  line option  rather than from the emacs mode line or
main menu, see
.Ht me 1 .
Invoking
.IP
\fBme -c\fR\|\fI<mySessionName>\fR
.LP
where \fI<mySessionName>\fR is the name of the session (the
.Ht $MENAME 5
or system  login name) will  restore all of of the  buffers,  windows  layout,
point and mark  positions, main window size etc. at the point of the last shut
down. e.g. given a system login name of \fIjasspa\fR then
.IP
\fBme -c\fR\|\fIjasspa\fR
.LP
restores  the  session  to the state  when  \fIjasspa\fR  last  exited  \*(mS.
When the session name is specified then no other files should be specified, so
the command line
.IP
\fBme -c\fR\|\fIjasspa\fR \fCmorefiles.txt\fR
.LP
restores the buffers but does not restore the window  layout  because this has
been destroyed by the introduction of the new file "\fCmorefiles.txt\fR". This
type of command  with  another  file behaves as the old "\fCme -c\fR"  command
prior   to  the   2006   release   that   did   not   support   sessions.   If
\fI<mySessionName>\fR  is not specified  then the buffers are restored but the
window layout is not restored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht change-scheme 3 ,
.Ht erf 8 ,
.Ht esf 8 ,
.Ht @h0 4 ,
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht save-session 3 .
.ad
.FH
