.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Tue Feb 2 21:10:34 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac029.3,v 2.10 2009-08-29 17:13:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.ds C0 "(\fBf2\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fBf3\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH collapse-current 3
.XI collapse-current - "\*(C0(un)Fold a region in the current buffer"
.XI collapse-all - "\*(C1(Un)Fold all regions in the current buffer"
.SH NAME
.Me "|collapse-current"
collapse-current \- (un)Fold a region in the current buffer
.br
.Me "|collapse-all"
collapse-all \- (Un)Fold all regions in the current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B collapse-current
.br
.B collapse-all
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(mE provides a generic, albeit coarse, folding mechanism which is applied to
some of the well known file modes. The folding  mechanism  allows parts of the
buffer to be  scrolled  up and  hidden,  leaving a residue  hilighting  marker
within   the   buffer   indicating   a   folded   region.   A  folded   buffer
typically  allows a summary of the buffer contents to be viewed within several
windows, hiding the detail of the buffer.
.PP
The folding  mechanism  uses well defined  \fIstart\fR  and \fIend\fR  markers
which form part of the syntax of the well known file mode. i.e. in 'C' this is
the open and closed  braces that appear on the  left-hand  margin  (\fC{\fR ..
\fC}\fR).  The  intention  is that the  natural  syntax of the text is used to
determine  the fold  positions,  requiring  no  additional  text  formating or
special text tags to be inserted by the user.
.PP
.B collapse-current
opens and closes a folded  region  within the  buffer. If the  current  cursor
position  lies  between a  \fIstart\fR  and  \fIend\fR  marker then the region
between  the  start and end is folded  out and  hidden  from  view,  leaving a
highlight  marker in the buffer. If the fold  already  exists then, moving the
cursor to the folded line and invoking \fBcollapse-current\fR removes the fold
marker and reveals the text.
.PP
.B collapse-all
opens and closes all folded regions within the buffer, if the current state is
unfolded then all of the  \fIstart\fR/\fIend\fR  markers are located and their
regions   folded.   Conversely,   if  the  buffer  is  currently   folded  and
\fBcollapse-all\fR  is invoked, then all folds are removed and the  associated
text revealed.
.SH CONFIGURATION
In order to utilize the  \fBcollapse-current/all\fR  commands within a buffer,
the  \fIstart\fR  and  \fIend\fR  markers  have  to  be  initialized  for  the
syntactical contents of the buffer. This is performed within the hook function
for the buffer, using the hook-name, the initialization is performed within 
.Ht buffer-init 3 .
Buffer  specific  variables  are  defined  within the context of the buffer to
configure that start and end fold handling. The buffer specific  variables are
defined as follows, where \fIXXX\fR is the file hook base name.
.IP "\fB.fhook-\fR\|\fIXXX\fR\|\fB-collapse-open\fR"
A regular expression search string used to locate the start of the string. For
speed the search string should  include a regular  expression  start or end of
line character whenever possible. i.e. in C the open is defined as "\fC^{\fR".
.IP "\fB.fhook-\fR\|\fIXXX\fR\|\fB-collapse-close\fR"
A regular  expression  search string used to locate the end of the string. For
speed the search string should include a regular  expression start or end line
character whenever possible. i.e. in C the close is defined as "\fC^}\fR".
.IP "\fB.fhook-\fR\|\fIXXX\fR\|\fB-collapse-mopen\fR"
An  integer  value  that  denotes  the number of lines to move in a forward or
(negative  n) backward  direction  from the  \fIstart\fR  line  located by the
search  string to the  position  in the buffer to be folded. If default  value
when  \fBmopen\fR  is omitted is 0, starting  the fold from the search  string
line.
.IP "\fB.fhook-\fR\|\fIXXX\fR\|\fB-collapse-mclose\fR"
The relative  displacement from the close fold line to the fold position, this
is a positive or negative  displacement  depending  on where the fold is to be
positioned.
.IP "\fB.fhook-\fR\|\fIXXX\fR\|\fB-collapse-mnext\fR"
Specifies the number  of lines to advance  before the next search is continued
on the fold operation. This is only used by \fBcollapse-all\fR.
.SH PRESENTATION
The presentation of a collapsed region takes the form:
.IP
\fI<open line string>\fR ... \fI<close line string>\fR
.LP
Where 
.I "<open line string>"
and 
.I "<close line string>"
are  automatically  extracted  from the  originating  buffer  using the search
string  definition.  Existing  \fBcollapse\fR  implementations  used a simpler
format: 
.IP
\fI<open line string>\fR ... 
.LP
In \*(mS '04 and later versions, then the 
.I "<close line string>"
is always appended.  Appending of the closing token is required to ensure that
any 
.Hl indentation indent 2
is  maintained.  This allows the indent  processing to find both an \fIopen\fR
and \fIclose\fR  character sequence and not introduce an unwanted indentation.
To ensure that indentation consistency is maintained then the 
.B .fhook-XXX.collapse-close 
definition should minimally match the corresponding  indentation close regular
expression. 
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  examples show how the collapse  variables are set up in each of
the buffer modes.
.SS "C and C++"
\fBC\fR and  \fBC++\fR  collapse on the open and close brace  appearing in the
left-hand     margin.    The    collapse     variables    are    defined    in
\fChkc\fR/\fChkcpp.emf\fR as follows:-
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable .fhook-c.collapse-open  "^{"
set-variable .fhook-c.collapse-close "^}"
set-variable .fhook-c.collapse-mopen  "-1"
set-variable .fhook-c.collapse-mclose "1"
set-variable .fhook-c.collapse-mnext "-1"
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
Given a 'C' function definition:-
.CS
static void
myfunc (int a, int b)
{
    /* Function body */
}
.CE
the folded version appears as follows:-
.CS
static void
myfunc (int a, int b) ... }
.CE 0
.SS "emf"
MicroEmacs  macro files \fBemf\fR  support folding of macro  definitions,  the
collapse variables are defined in \fChkemf.emf\fR as follows:-
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable .fhook-emf.collapse-open  "^0? ?define-macro[ \\t]"
set-variable .fhook-emf.collapse-close "^!emacro"
set-variable .fhook-emf.collapse-mclose "1"
set-variable .fhook-emf.collapse-mnext "-1"
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
Given a macro definition:-
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
0 define-macro mymacro
; This is the body of the macro
; ... and some more ...
!emacro
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
the collapsed version of the macro is defined as:-
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
0 define-macro mymacro ... !emacro
.CE 0
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
.SS nroff
\fBnroff\fR  is configured  for manual pages only and folds between  \fC.SH\fR
and \fC.SS\fR sections, the hook variables are defined as follows:-
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable .fhook-nroff.collapse-open  "^\\.S[SH]"
set-variable .fhook-nroff.collapse-close "^\\.S[SH]\\|\\'"
set-variable .fhook-nroff.collapse-mnext "-1"
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
Given an nroff block of text defined as:-
.CS
\&\.SH SYNOPSIS
\&\.\e" Some text
\&\.\e" Some more text
\&\.SH DESCRIPTION
.CE
Then the collapsed version appears as:
.CS
\&\.SH SYNOPSIS
\&\.SH DESCRIPTION
.CE 0
.SS "tcl/tk"
\fBtcl/tk\fR is configured to collapse  procedures. The collapse variables are
defined as:-
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable .fhook-tcl.collapse-open  "^proc "
set-variable .fhook-tcl.collapse-close "^}"
set-variable .fhook-tcl.collapse-mclose "1"
set-variable .fhook-tcl.collapse-mnext "-1"
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
Given a tcl procedure definition:-
.CS
proc tixControl:InitWidgetRec {w} {
    upvar #0 $w data

    tixChainMethod $w InitWidgetRec

    set data(varInited)	  0
    set data(serial)	0
}
.CE
The collapsed version of the same section appears as:-
.CS
proc tixControl:InitWidgetRec {w} { ... }
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
.B collapse-current
and
.B collapse-all
are macros  implemented  in  \fCcollapse.emf\fR.  The  collapsing is performed
using the
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
command.
.PP
\fBcollapse-current\fR may also be bound to the mouse using the 
.Ht user-setup 3 . 
The typical binding is \fCC-mouse-drop-1\fR.
.SH HISTORY
\fBcollapse\fR  is the new name for  \fBfold\fR  appearing in MicroEmacs  2004
version. The existing commands of  \fBfold-current\fR  and \fBfold-all\fR have
been replaced by \fBcollapse-current\fR and \fBcollapse-all\fR respectively.
\fBcollapse\fR now uses the private command variables.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Ht buffer-init 3 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
