.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac005.3,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:13:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|delete
.so me.tni
.TH clean 3
.XI clean - "Remove redundant white spaces from the current buffer"
.SH NAME
clean \- Remove redundant white spaces from the current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBclean\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clean
removes  redundant white spaces from the current buffer, there are three types
this command remove:
.IP 1)
Any space or tab  character at the end of the line. All are removed  until the
last  character  is not a space or a tab, or the line is empty.  Note  that an
empty line is not removed unless at the end of the buffer.
.IP 2)
Space  characters  are removed  when the next  character  is a tab, making the
space  redundant,  e.g. the  strings  "\fC\tHello World\fR"  and
.\"
"\fC  \tHello  World\fR"  will  look  identical   because  the  tab  character
('\fI\t\fR')  indents  the text to the 8th column with or without the space so
the space can be removed.
.IP 3)
Superfluous empty lines at the end of the buffer are removed, leaving only one
empty line.
.IP 4)
If  argument  \fIn\fR is given  (value is not used)  multiple  blank lines are
reduced to a single blank line.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.IP "\fC[Command illegal in view mode]\fR"
Caused by a  redundant  white  space being found and the buffer  being in view
mode. Note that if clean  completes  while the  buffer is in view mode then no
superfluous white spaces where found.
.SH NOTES
.B clean
is a macro defined in \fCformat.emf\fR.
.PP
Most of this  command's  operation  is  performed  by simple  regex search and
replace strings:
.IP a)
Search for:      "[\\t ]+$"
Replace with:    "\\\\0"
.IP b)
Search for:      "[ ]+\\t"
Replace with:    "\\t"
.IP c)
Search for:      "\\n\\n\\n"
Replace with:    "\\n\\n"
.LP
It is useful to define a new command called  \fBspotless\fR  in the user macro
file which cleans the file and removes blank lines. The new command is defined
as follows:-
.ne 4
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; spotless; Perform a clean and remove any multi-blank lines.
define-macro spotless
    -1 clean
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
.Ht tab 2m ,
.Ht delete-blank-lines 2 ,
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3 .
.ad
.FH
