.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac032.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Aug 31 21:02:32 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac032.3,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:29:24 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH draw 3
.XI draw \- "Simple line drawing utility"
.SH NAME
draw - Simple line drawing utility
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBdraw\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdraw\fR  provides a simple way of drawing  lines into the  current  buffer,
this has a variety  of uses such as  drawing  tables.  \fBdraw\fR  copies  the
current buffer into a temporary  buffer and then allows the user to draw using
simple commands until the user either aborts, discarding any changes, or exits
insert the changes back into the buffer.
.PP
The keys for \fBdraw\fR are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fBesc h\fR"
Display a help dialog.
.IP "\fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, \fBleft\fR, \fBright\fR"
The cursor keys (or any other keys bound the the same  commands) will move the
cursor, drawing in the current mode.
.IP "\fBd\fR"
Change the current mode to \fBd\fRraw  (default),  cursor movement will result
in drawing in the current style.
.IP "\fBe\fR"
Change the current mode to \fBe\fRrase,  cursor movement will result
in erasing to spaces.
.IP "\fBm\fR"
Change the current  mode to  \fBm\fRove,  no drawing is performed  with cursor
movement.
.IP "\fBu\fR"
Change the current mode to \fBu\fRndo,  cursor movement will result
in undoing the character to the original or a space.
.IP "\fB-\fR"
Sets the current horizontal line drawing style to use '\fC-\fR's (default).
.IP "\fB=\fR"
Sets the current horizontal line drawing style to use '\fC=\fR's.
.IP "\fBC-g\fR"
Abort - changes are lost.
.IP "\fBreturn\fR"
Exit, inserting any changes into the current buffer.
.SH NOTES
.B draw
is a macro defined in \fCdraw.emf\fR.
.FH
