.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac092.3,v 2.1 2009-09-03 22:10:29 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs scuts
.so me.tni
.TH number-items 3
.XI number-items - "Renumber a vertical list of items"
.SH NAME
number-items \- Renumber a vertical list of items
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|number-items"
.B number-items
\fIstart-number\fR
\fIchar-width\fR
\fInum-lines\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B number-items
provides  a short cut  method of  re-numbering  a list of  vertically  aligned
numbered items. The command assumes a fixed width number per line. The command
operates  from the  current  cursor  position  in a  downward  direction.  The
parameters are defined as follows:
.IP \fIstart-number\fR
The value of the first item to renumber.
.IP \fIchar-width\fR
The width of the number  space i.e. 1-10 is a width of 2, 89-101 is a width of
3.
.IP \fInum-lines\fR
The number of lines to re-number, including the current line.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following code fragment shows how a list is renumbered.
.CS
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_UP,   # 9, "Move Up")
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_DOWN,  10, "Move down")
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_LEFT,  15, "Move down")
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_RIGHT, 10, "Move down")
.CE
To to use the  command  to  renumber  the list from 100 to 103 then the cursor
is placed at the left hand side where the number  should start. In the example
this  is  \fC#\fR,  then  issue  the  command  \fB\*ex\fR   \fBnumber-items\fR
\fB100\fR \fB3\fR \fB4\fR. This renumbers the list resulting in the following:
.CS
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_UP,   100, "Move Up")
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_DOWN, 101, "Move down")
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_LEFT, 102, "Move down")
MY_COMMAND (myCMD_RIGHT,103, "Move down")
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
.B number-items
is a macro defined in \fCmisc.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.ad
.FH
