.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac089.3,v 2.1 2022/03/03 10:27:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.so me.tni
.TH grep 3
.XI grep - "Search a file for a pattern"
.SH NAME
grep \- Search a file for a pattern
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B grep
"[\fIgrep-options\fR] <\fIsearch-pattern\fR> [\fIfile-mask\fR] [\fIfile-mask\fR ...]"
["\|\fIstarting-path\fR\|"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grep
performs  a search for a pattern  and  displays  all lines that  contain  that
pattern within files in the current directory (or from  \fIstarting-path\fR\|)
using  built  in  \*(mE  constructs   rather  than  relying  on  any  external
executables such as 
.Hr grep 1 . 
.B grep
operates  in exactly the same way as a  traditional  \fIgrep\fR  command  line
utility and uses a command line option  sequence  from the \*(mE command line.
The  \fIgrep-options\fR  allow  recursive  and  regular  expression  searches,
searching  against the file  modification time etc. The command line takes the
user supplied  \fIgrep-options\fR,  \fIsearch-pattern\fR,  \fIfile-mask\fR and
\fIstarting-path\fR.  The output of the command is piped into the \fB*grep*\fR
buffer.
.IP "\fIgrep-options\fR"
Defines the \fIoptions\fR  that are specified on the command line, the default
options may also be defined with the 
.Ht find-setup 3 
command  invoked from the command line or from the the  \fBTools\fR  menu. The
\fIgrep-options\fR are defined as follows:
.RS 
.BP "--"
Last option, the following string must be the \fIsearch-pattern\fR which may start with a '-'.
.BP "-a"
Re-read all out of date buffers,  prevents a manual prompt,  equivalent of Yes
to all. This is the inverse of \fB-o\fR
.BP "-b"
Ignore binary files.
.BP "-B"
Do not ignore binary files.
.BP "-c"
Command return the number of matchs found rather than the default, which is simply 0 for one or more matches or
1 if no matches were found.
.BP "-C"
Command returns 0 (non-error for command-line tool) regardless of if it finds any matches.
.BP "-d"
List directories or grep in directory listings.
.BP "-D"
Do not list directories or grep in directory listings.
.BP "-e"
Only include the matching string in the \fC*grep*\fR output buffer.
.BP "-f"
List/search files.
.BP "-F"
Do not list/search files.
.BP "-g"
File masks are regex (i.e. .*\.emf)
.BP "-G"
File masks are not regex (i.e. *.emf)
.BP "-i"
Ignore search pattern case (case insensitive).
.BP "-I"
Do not ignore search pattern case (case sensitive).
.BP "-l"
Use existing buffer of loaded files.
.BP "-L"
Do not use existing buffer of loaded files.
.BP "-m"
Search pattern is a regular expression.
.BP "-M"
Search pattern is not a regular expression.
.BP "-o"
Do not re-read all out of date buffers,  prevents a manual prompt,  equivalent
of No to all. This is the inverse of \fB-a\fR.
.BP "-p"
Starting path specified
.BP "-P"
Starting path not specified
.BP "-q"
Enables quiet mode for reduced print-out.
.BP "-r"
Recurse into sub-directories
.BP "-R"
Do not recurse into sub-directories
.IP "\fB-S\fR \fI<size>\fR"
File size - less than or equal, the following size formats are supported:
.RS
.LP
\fB-S\fR \fI<number>\fR
.\"
File size specified bytes.
.LP
\fB-S\fR \fI<number>\fR\|\fBk\fR
.\"
File size specified in Kilobytes.
.RE
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fI<size>\fR"
File size greater than; supported size formats are the same as \fB-S\fR.
.IP "\fB-T\fR \fI<time>\fR"
Modification time - older than, the following time formats are supported:
.RS
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyy-mm-dd\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyyyy-mm-dd\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIyyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss\fR
.\"
.LP
\fB-T\fR \fIdays\fR
.\"
Offset time in days from  midnight  this  morning, e.g. \fB-T 0\fR would match
all files not modified today. 
.LP
\fB-T \fIdays.hours[.minutes[.seconds]]\fR
.\"
Offset time in , e.g.
.B "-T 1.1.30"
matches all files 25 hours and 30 minutes old.
.RE
.IP
Note that \fB-T 1\fR is not the same as \fB-T 1.0\fR, except at midnight.
.IP "\fB-t\fR \fI<time>\fR"
Modification  time - newer than or equal,  supported time formats are the same
as \fB-T\fR.
.BP "-u"
Removes the default file size limit of 100Mb allowing files of any size to be search. Note that \*(mS uses
.Ht page-file 3
on files larger than 100Mb to avoid using too much memory.
.BP "-U"
Enforces the 100Mb file size limit.
.BP "-x"
Use \*(mS
.Ht $file-ignore 5
to exclude unimportant files
.BP "-X"
Do not use \*(mS 
.Ht $file-ignore 5 .
.BP "-&"
Launch grep using a separate process, this stops the current  MicroEmacs hanging during the grep process which can
be useful for time consuming searches.
.RE
.IP "\fIsearch-pattern\fR"
The search pattern to look for.
.IP "\fIfile-mask\fR"
The files to search for e.g.  \fB*.txt\fR, if no file mask is given then  \fBgrep\fR  attempts to get a file list from
the current buffer, this could either be a \fC*grep*\fR output buffer, in which case each file listed will be selected
for the next grep, or some kind of file listing  (this could be a loaded  directory,  an output from  \fBfind\fR  or a
source  revision  control  system  such as cvs or svn) in which case the files to be searched  must be selected  (line
starts with a "\fC*\fR".  
.IP "\fIstarting-path\fR"
The directory  location  where the search should  commence when the \fB-p\fR option is used. The default when \fB-p\fR
is omitted is the location of the current buffer.
.PP
.B find-setup 
invokes a dialogue and allows the default  \fIfile-options\fR  to be specified
when the \fBfind\fR command is invoked.
.SH NOTES
.BS 
Trying to make the command-line look like the standard UNIX 
.Hr grep 1 
command  may be more of a  hindrance  than a help  because  its not  grep.  No
support is provided for options like \fB-w\fR, \fB-l\fR etc.  
.BU
The default when no options are given is  \fB-XGPRDfMIBL\fR,  default  options
may be set via the 
.Ht find-setup 3
command (sets the \fI/history/grep-com\fR registry entry).
.BU
Use of \fB-d\fR searches for \fI<search-pattern>\fR within the \*(mE directory
listing.
.BU
It may be advantageous to enable the \fB-l\fR option default using 
.Ht find-setup 3 .
.\" Should the -x option  ignore  auto-save  files if it is an  auto-save of a
.\"file  currently  loaded  and edited in the  current ME  session? I think it
.\"should  as this is more  logical  behaviour  and  much  more  important  for
.\"commands like replace-strings-in-files.   
.BE 0
.PP
The other options of the underlying
.Ht find 3
command are allowed but provide no benefit to these commands.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %xgrep-com 5 ,
.Hr find 1 ,
.Ht find 3 ,
.Ht find-setup 3 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Hr grep 1 ,
.Ht replace-string-in-files 3 ,
.Ht xfind 3 ,
.Ht xgrep 3 ,
.Ht rgrep 3 .
.ad
.FH
