.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac104.3,v 2.2 2025/08/28 00:11:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|comparison
.so me.tni
.TH diff-lines 3
.XI diff-lines - "Highlight the differences between two lines"
.SH NAME
diff-lines \- Highlight the differences between two lines
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B diff-lines
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B diff-lines
opens a window showing the differences found between two lines. If there is an active region the two lines compare are 
the lines containing the mark with the line containing the cursor. If the is no active region the current line is 
compared with the next.
.PP
The  numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the
command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When set the command copies the two lines into a new \fC*diff-lines*\fR buffer and displays it in popup window. When 
clear the command operates in the current buffer directory, in which case it is the caller's responsibility to ensure 
the buffer's highlighting has been setup correctly, see notes below.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If set the mark position is always used to locate 2nd line, regardless of whether the region is active.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If set the comparison is made for the current column of the cursor (and mark if region is used) to the end of the 
line, this can be useful when the start of the lines have an ignorable difference such a +/- diff line markers.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
If set then the two lines are not wrapped, if clear the lines are wrapped at the width of the display window.
.SH NOTES
\fBdiff-lines\fR inserts the following
.Ht hilight 2
tags into the two lines:
.IP \fC\\\\CCM\fR
Start of a region of common change.
.IP \fC\\\\CCN\fR
Start of a region of added text.
.IP \fC\\\\CCO\fR
Start of a region of removed text.
.IP \fC\\\\CCA\fR
End of the current region.
.PP
\fBdiff-lines\fR is a macro defined in \fCdiffline.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht compare-windows 2 ,
.Ht diff 3 .
.ad
.FH
