.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac000.3,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:13:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|shell
.so me.tni
.TH compile 3
.XI compile - "Start a compilation process"
.XI recompile - "Rerun compilation process"
.SH NAME
.Me "|compile"
compile \- Start a compilation process
.Me "|recompile"
recompile - Rerun compilation process
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B compile 
["\fIauto-touch-file\fR"]
"\fIcompile-command\fR"
.br
.B recompile
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B compile
gets and executes the compile command using a pipe execution (incremental pipe
on UNIX platforms), loading the output into a buffer called "\fB*compile*\fR",
with go to error parsing using the command
.Ht get-next-line 2 .
The  default compile execution is set  by variable
.Ht %compile-com 5 ,
the error parsing  is setup using
the command
.Ht add-next-line 2 .
.PP
Before the compile command is executed
.Ht save-some-buffers 2
is executed to allow the user to ensure that all  relevant  buffers are saved.
.PP
Compile uses command 
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
to launch the given system \fIcompile-command\fR. By default the output lines in the window 
are wrapped at 2046 characters as a balance between reliably searching for
errors and usability. See flag \fB0x02\fR below or help on 
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
for details on how to change this behaviour.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  change  the  default  behavior  of
compile described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables the user prompt before saving buffers, if this flag is
not supplied then all modified visible buffers will be written.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the compile output lines will be wrapped at the width of the current window.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the previous \fIcompile-command\fR is automatically used for this compile.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
When set the previous compile location (path) is automatically used for this compile.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
When set the compile prompts for an \fIauto-touch-file\fR,  when set to a file name this file is automatically touched
(modification  timestamp updated without changing the files content) on this and any subsequent  compiles. The feature
is disabled if set to an empty string.
.PP
.B recompile
reruns the previous compile process, it is implemented by executing  compile with flags 0x04 and 0x08, the other flags
of compile can also be passed to this command.
.SH NOTES
\fBcompile\fR and \fBrecompile\fR are macros defined in \fCtools.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-next-line 2 ,
.Ht %compile-com 5 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Ht save-some-buffers 2 ,
.Ht grep 3 .
.ad
.FH
