.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Fri Aug 7 07:32:59 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac027.3,v 2.10 2023/03/08 10:51:16 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file|essential
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(fA\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH file-browser 3
.XI file-browser - "\*(C0Browse the file system"
.XI file-browser-close - "Close the file-browser"
.XI file-browser-swap-buffers - "Swap between file-browser windows"
.SH NAME
file-browser \- Browse the file system
file-browser-close \- Close the file-browser
file-browser-swap-buffers \- Swap between file-browser windows
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBfile-browser\fR \*(C0
.br
\fBfile-browser-close\fR
.br
\fBfile-browser-swap-buffers\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfile-browser\fR  can be used to browse  around the file system. When first  executed  \fBfile-browser\fR  creates 2
buffers,  "\fC*directory*\fR"  displaying the directory structure and "\fC*files*\fR" listing the files in the current
directory with information on each file. \fBfile-browser\fR displays these buffers side by side, splitting the current
window horizontally if required.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR is used to modify the default  behavior of the  command,  where the bits are defined as
follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When not set \fBfile-browser\fR only creates a single "\fC*files*\fR" window.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set  \fBfile-browser\fR  will  attempt to  identify if the current  directory  is being  managed by a source code
revision system (such as
.Ht cvs 3
or
.Ht svn 3 )
and if so modifies the directory  listing to include  addition  revision  information.  Note that the control system's
support macros must already be loaded, this can typically be done by enabling the relevant 'support on start-up' option.
.PP
Once open the user can browse  through  the system  using the  following  keys in the  \fC*directory*\fR  buffer,  use
\fBesc-h\fR for help within the buffer:
.IP \fCspace\fR
Selects  the  directory  on the current  line and  up-dates  the  \fC*files*\fR  buffer with the  information  on this
directory. This can also be done by clicking the left mouse button on the directory name.
.IP \fCreturn\fR
Selects the  directory  on the current  line, if open  (sub-directories  displayed)  then closes it or if closed it is
opened. The \fC*files*\fR  buffer is up-dated with the information on the directory. This can also be done by clicking
the left mouse button on the '\fC+\fR' or '\fC-\fR' symbol just before the directory name.
.IP \fCC-return\fR
As with \fCreturn\fR expect  sub-directories are recursively opened or closed,
note that this could take some time on large file  systems.  This can also be
done by clicking  the right mouse button on the '\fC+\fR' or '\fC-\fR'  symbol
just before the directory name.
.IP \fCtab\fR
Move to the \fC*files*\fR buffer.
.IP \fCf10\fR
Closes file-browser.
.PP
The following  keys can be used in the \fC*files*\fR buffer:
.IP \fCreturn\fR
If the  current  line is a  directory,  this  because  the current  directory,
updating both the \fC*directory*\fR and \fC*files*\fR  buffers. If the line is
a file then it is opened using
.Ht find-file 2 .
This can also be done by clicking the left mouse button on the file name.
.IP
Where a \fBfile-tool\fR open action has been defined using
.Ht file-tool-setup 3
then the selected tool or utility is run to process the file. This may be used
to launch viewers for PDF, image files etc.
.IP \fCspace\fR
Toggles  the tag state of the file on the current  line, see \fCx\fR  command.
This can also be done by clicking  the left mouse button  anywhere  before the
file name, or for multiple files drag a region with the left mouse button.
.IP "\fCX\fR or \fCx\fR"
Executes a
.Ht shell-command 2
on all  tagged  files. The user is  prompted  for the  command  line which can
contain the following special tokens:
.RS
.nf
\fC%p  \fRFull file name, including path.
\fC%f  \fRThe file name without the path.
.fi
.RE
As the  \fBshell-command\fR  is executed in the directory  \fC%f\fR is safe to
use in a command such as "\fCdel %f\fR".
.IP "\fCD\fR or \fCd\fR or \fCdelete\fR"
Delete selected files or current file/directory.
.IP \fCtab\fR
Move to the \fC*directory*\fR buffer.
.IP "\fCbackspace\fR"
Move to the parent directory.
.IP "\fCl\fR"
Refresh the listing from the file system.
.IP "\fCf\fR"
Toggle the filter, enables/disables the display of back-up, object files etc.
.IP "\fCS\fR"
Initiates  a search for files, at the  command  prompt  then enter the leading
characters  to search for use  \fBC-s\fR  and \fBC-r\fR to search  forwards or
backwards  respectively. The \fCs\fR version of this command is an incremental
search and is easier to use.
.IP "\fCs\fR"
Launch  an  incremental  search  by  name,  at the  prompt  enter  the  search
characters,  use  \fBC-s\fR  and  \fBC-r\fR  to search  forwards or  backwards
respectively.
.IP "\fC1\fR"
Sort list by selected state.
.IP "\fC2\fR"
Sort list by attribute.
.IP "\fC3\fR"
Sort list by size.
.IP "\fC4\fR"
Sort list by modified time.
.IP "\fC5\fR"
Sort list by name.
.IP "\fC6\fR"
Sort list by extension.
.IP "\fCspace\fR or \fC+\fR"
Select file.
.IP "\fC-\fR"
Unselect file.
.IP "\fC*\fR"
Invert selection.
.IP "\fCa\fR"
Select all.
.IP "\fCu\fR"
Unselect all.
.IP "\fCe\fR"
Edit file, opens the file in the editor for modification.
.IP "\fCi\fR"
Edit  selected  file,  opens  all  of the  selected  file  in the  editor  for
modification.
.IP "\fCv\fR"
View file, opens file for viewing only (write protected).
.IP "\fCr\fR"
Rename file or directory, command line prompt for the new name.
.IP "\fCc\fR"
Copy file(s)  and/or  directory(s),  command line prompt for directory to copy
file(s).
.IP "\fCm\fR"
Move file(s)  and/or  directory(s),  command line prompt for directory to move
file(s).
.IP "\fCn\fR"
Create a new  directory  (or folder),  command line prompt for the name of the
new directory to create.
.IP "\fCt\fR"
Invokes the file tools menu to process the file, see
.Ht file-tool-setup 3 .
.PP
\fBfile-browser-swap-buffers\fR   swaps  between  the   \fC*directory*\fR  and
\fC*file*\fR  windows,  making the other the current  window,  this is usually
locally bound to the \fCtab\fR key.
.PP
\fBfile-browser-close\fR  hides both the  \fC*directory*\fR  and  \fC*file*\fR
windows,  closing  the  file-browser,  this is  usually  locally  bound to the
\fCf10\fR  key. Note that this  command is hidden and will not complete on the
command line, but may be bound or input explicitly.
.SH "HISTORY"
The command  line  mapping was revised in the 2006  release for a more logical
key to file operation mapping.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht directory-tree 2 ,
.Ht file-tool-setup 3 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht find-zfile 3 ,
.Ht shell-command 2 ,
.Ht cc-setup 3 ,
.Ht cvs-setup 3 ,
.Ht svn-setup 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
