.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac078.3,v 2.8 2009-10-04 09:46:23 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH notes 3
.XI notes - "Tagged hierarchical database of notes"
.XI notes-file - "Open a notes database file"
.XI notes-close - "Close the notes window"
.XI notes-import-skwyrul - "Import a Skwyrul index file (skwyrul_l.htm)"
.XI notes-context - "Create/Access buffer context note"
.XI notes-instant - "Create quick note"
.XI enf 8 "Notes database file" files
.SH NAME
notes \- Tagged hierarchical database of notes.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B notes
.br
.B notes-file
.br
.B notes-close
.br
.B notes-context
.br
.B notes-instant
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B notes
is a note database that allows  miscellaneous text information to be organized
and retained in a database. Each note is has a label  associated with it which
may be hierarchically organized into a tree of notes. 
.PP
Information  that a programmer  would  typically put into a notes database may
include:- 
.BS
How to mount a CD-ROM on a remote \s-1UNIX\s0 system.
.BU
Boot strapping Linux.
.BU
Configuring the C compiler.
.BU
etc..
.BE
This information  would be  hierarchically  organized by system, function etc.
The content typically represents a snippet of information from a diverse range
of subjects that probably needs to be accessed  infrequently  but organized in
such a way that it may be located quickly when required.
.PP
On running 
.B notes
then a new frame is created (retaining the existing window  configuration) and
the user is  prompted to create a new notes file with their user name,  accept
this  option  and a new  notes  file  is  created  in the  \s-1JASSPA\s0  home
directory. The user is presented with a split view window as follows:-
.CS
+-------------+-----------------------------------+
| + user Pad  |Text associated with the note.     |
|*  +- info 1 |                                   |
|   +- info 2 |Anything may be typed in here.     |
|             |                                   |
|             |                                   |
|             |                                   |
|             |                                   |
+=User Pad====+=*User Pad: info 1* ===============+
|                                                 |
+-------------------------------------------------+
.CE
The left pane  comprises a tree of note  titles, the right pane  contains  the
text note body of the selected  note title. Free form text may be entered into
the text body pane.
.PP
Notes  are add and  removed  from the notes  tree  pane. A mouse  right  click
presents a menu of options that operate on the current node as follows:-
.IP "\fBTidy Tree\fR - \fCt\fR/\fCreturn\fR"
At the current node then close the note hierarchy. \fCt\fR will close the node
a  \s-1RETURN\s0  at the node will open or close it,  depending on the current
state.
.IP "\fBRename Note\fR \- \fCr\fR"
Edit the name of the note, a dialog is presented  and a free form label of the
note may be edited.
.IP "\fBDelete Note\fR \- \fCdelete\fR"
Delete  the note from the tree.  This  deletes  the label and the note. if the
note has any children then all children are deleted.
.IP "\fBCut Note\fR \- \fCx\fR"
Delete a note,  including  any child  notes  from the tree,  allowing the cut
information to be pasted back to a different location in the tree. (See 
\fBPaste\fR \fBNote\fR).
.IP "\fBPaste Note\fR \- \fCv\fR"
Inserts a cut note (or note tree) back into the list at the current position.
.IP "\fBMove Note Up\fR \- \fCu\fR"
Move a note up the tree hierarchy, at the same level.
.IP "\fBMove Note Down\fR \- \fCd\fR"
Move a note down the tree hierarchy, at the same level.
.IP "\fBInsert New Note\fR \- \fCinsert\fR"
Insert a new note as a child of the current node. The user is prompted for the
name of the note, the name may be  entered  and the cursor is left in the body
pane for text entry.
.\"---------
.IP "\fBForward Note\fR - \fCn\fR" 
Moves  to the  next  note.  Within  the  note  window  then  \fB\*cpage-down\fR
similarly advances to the next note.
.IP "\fBBackward Note\fR - \fCp\fR" 
Moves  to the  previous note.  Within  the  note  window  then  \fB\*cpage-up\fR
similarly advances to the previous note.
.IP "\fBSearch Forward\fR \- \fCesc\ s\fR"
Search in a forwards direction from the current note.
.IP "\fBSearch Backward\fR \- \fCesc\ C-s\fR"
Search in a backwards direction from the current note.
.\"---------
.IP "\fBOpen Notes File\fR"
Opens a new notes file, the user is  explicitly  prompted  for the name of the
notes file to open.
.IP "\fBSave Notes File\fR"
Saves the notes file to the file system.
.IP "\fBHide Notes\fR"
Hides the notes window and restores the exiting  buffer  windows  prior to the
\fBnotes\fR invocation.
.LP
To quit  \fBnotes\fR  then delete the buffer using \fB\*cx  \*ck\fR or run the
command 
.B notes-close 
command.
.PP
The notes file may be saved like any other buffer using 
.Ht save-buffer 2
(\fC\*cx   \*cs\fR).  This  saves  the  tree  and  the  notes.   Auto-save  is
automatically enabled.
.PP
.B notes-close
closes the notes  frame and  returns the user to the  existing  windows,
retaining  the same  screen  layout. The notes file is still  resident  in the
editor and may be restored with a 
.B notes 
command.
.PP
.B notes-file 
opens a new notes file, the user is  explicitly  prompted  for the name of the
notes file. There are no restrictions on the number of notes files that may be
created.
.B notes-import-skwyrul
imports a Skwyrul  index file  (\fCskwyrul_l.htm\fR)  into \*(mS notes format.
This  command  is not  available  on  line  as it is  likely  to be used  very
infrequently.  To load the command then load the file  \fCnotesutl.emf\fR  and
execute the buffer 
.Ht execute-buffer 2
(\fC\*ex   execute-buffer\fR).   The  command  may  be  explicitly  run  using
\fC\*ex\fR \fCnotes-import-skwyrul\fR.
.PP
.B notes-instant
creates a new note under the  \fIInstant  Notes\fR  folder, it is  designed to
enable the user to jot something down quickly and in a safe place. The note is
automatically  named and is the  fastest  method of adding a note. This may be
invoked  outside of the notes window, on  invocation  then a new notes node is
created and the content of the note added.
.PP
.B notes-context
is similar to 
.B notes-instant
but a bit more  advanced  and allows a note to be created  that is  associated
with a buffer.  When  working on a file (source  code,  document  etc.). It is
sometimes  useful to be able to  associate  some  information  with that file,
typically this is done with something like a \fCTODO:\fR comment, however this
is not always appropriate. 
.B notes-context
attempts to address this, it works from the current buffers  filename path and
attempts to locate an existing note for it, if no note is found then a new one
is created.  When  locating a note it looks down the path. The  command may be
invoked  outside of the notes window, on  invocation  then a new notes node is
created and the content of the note added.
.SS "Text Hilighting"
Blocks  of  text  within  the  notes  body  may be  highlighted.  The  special
constructs  of  \fC>format>\fR  ...  \fC>end>\fR  located  on the left  margin
introduce and close a highlighting style. i.e.
.ne 8
.CS
>c>
/* This is a C code insert */
>end>

>perl>
# This is a perl insert
>end>
.CE
The keywords that are supported are:-
.IP
\fC>emf>\fR \- \*(mS macro files.
.br
\fC>pseudo>\fR \- Pseudo code.
.br
\fC>bnf>\fR \- BNF.
.br
\fC>c>\fR \- C programming language
.br
\fC>cpp>\fR \- C++ programming language
.br
\fC>perl>\fR \- Perl programming language
.br
\fC>tcl>\fR \- TCL programming language
.br 
\fC>shell>\fR \- \s-1UNIX\s0 shell scripts
.br 
\fC>make>\fR \- Makefile scripts
.br 
\fC>end>\fR \- Ends the highlighting block.
.SH NOTES
.B notes
is a macro implemented in \fCnotes.emf\fR.  The database  information is stored
in a single file  \fIuser\|\fB.enf\fR.  The file  comprises both the index and
the text.
.PP
The implementation of \fBnotes\fR uses 
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 
to hide information for each note page. 
The 
.Hl Registry Registry -
is used to store and display the note tree labels.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht osd-search 3 .
.ad
.FH
