.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac037.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Feb 1 20:28:17 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac037.3,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:10:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH osd-dialog 3
.XI osd-dialog - "OSD dialog box"
.XI osd-xdialog - "OSD Extended dialog box"
.XI osd-entry - "OSD entry dialog box"
.SH NAME
.Me "|osd-dialog"
osd-dialog \- OSD dialog box
.br
.Me "|osd-xdialog"
osd-xdialog \- OSD Extended dialog box
.br
.Me "|osd-entry"
osd-entry \- OSD entry dialog box
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B osd-dialog
"\fItitle\fR" "\fIprompt\fR" ["\fIx-pos\fR" "\fIy-pos\fR"]
"\fIbut1\fR"
.br
.I n
.B osd-xdialog
"\fItitle\fR" "\fIprompt\fR" \fIdefault\fR ["\fIx-pos\fR" "\fIy-pos\fR"]
"\fIbut1\fR" "\fIbut2\fR" \.\.\.
.br
.B osd-entry
"\fItitle\fR" "\fIprompt\fR" \fIvariable\fR ["\fIentry-size\fR" ["\fItype\fR"]]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBosd-dialog\fR   constructs  a  OSD  dialog   prompt  with  a  title  string
\fItitle\fR,  a prompt  string  within  the dialog of  \fIprompt\fR.  A single
button,  with text  rendering  \fIbut1\fR,  is placed  within the  dialog. The
dialog remains on the screen until the button is selected or the user aborts.
.PP
\fBosd-xdialog\fR  creates an extended dialog with multiple buttons similar to
\fBosd-dialog\fR,  the number of buttons created  (\fI#\fR) is determined from
the  number  of  \fIbut\fR  arguments.  The  \fIdefault\fR   integer  argument
specifies the default  button  (1..\fI#\fR), a value of 0 specifies that there
is no default button.
.PP
The commands return the button pressed in the variable
.Ht $result 5 .
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can be used to change  the  default  behavior  of both
commands described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  command  abort  (default).  When enabled, if the user abort by either
closing  the dialog (top right  button) or using the  \fBabort-command\fR  the
dialog  command  will also abort. If bit 0x01 is not set the command  will not
abort and \fB$result\fR will be set to -1. 
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set, flags that a dialog position has also been provided, extra arguments
\fBx-pos\fR  and  \fBy-pos\fR  must also be given. By  default  the  dialog is
placed under the mouse.
.PP
\fBosd-entry\fR constructs a simple OSD entry dialog which prompts the user to
type in a value.  The value of the  supplied  variable  is used as an  initial
entry value, the  variable is set to the entered  value when the user  presses
the  "\fCOkay\fR"  button. The size of the entry  defaults to 30 characters if
not specified by the user. The last optional argument \fItype\fR sets the type
of value being  entered (e.g. file name, buffer name, etc) see flag \fBh\fR on
the help page for
.Ht @ml 4
for a list of entry types and the numerical value to be supplied.
.SH EXAMPLE
A simple query dialog is typically constructed using
.BR osd-dialog ,
as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.ne 5
.CS
!if &seq %osd-search-str ""
    osd-dialog "Replace" "Error: Search string is empty!" "  &OK  "
    !return
!endif
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The  following  example uses multiple  buttons  within a single  dialog, using
\fBosd-xdialog\fR, as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.ne 8
.CS
0 define-macro osd-close
    !if &bmod "edit"
        set-variable #l0 &spr "Buffer \\"%s\\" changed" $buffer-bname
        osd-xdialog "Buffer Close" #l0 1 "&Save First" \\
                                        "&Loose Changes" "&Cancel"
        !if &equ $result 3
            !abort
        !elif &equ $result 2
            -1 buffer-mode "edit"
        !else
            !if &seq $buffer-fname ""
                !nma write-buffer
            !else
                !nma save-buffer
            !endif
        !endif
    !endif
    delete-buffer $buffer-bname @mna
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The next example macro can be used to change the value of a user variable to a
user supplied file name:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %source-root "~/"

define-macro set-source-root
    osd-entry "Source Root" "&Path : " %source-root 35 1
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
\fBosd-dialog\fR,  \fBosd-xdialog\fR and \fBosd-entry\fR are macros defined in
\fCosd.emf\fR, using
.Ht osd 2
to create the dialog.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht osd 2 .
.ad
.FH
