.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 18:16:21 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac045.3,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs scuts|bind
.so me.tni
.TH expand-iso-accents 3
.XI expand-iso-accents - "Expand an ISO accent"
.XI iso-accents-mode - "ISO accent expansion short-cut mode"
.SH NAME
.Me "|expand-iso-accents"
expand-iso-accents \- Expand an ISO accent
.br
.Me "|iso-accents-mode"
iso-accents-mode \- Enable/disable ISO accent expansion short-cut mode
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B expand-iso-accents
.br
.I n
.B iso-accents-mode
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBexpand-iso-accents\fR   provides   a   facility   to  enter  a  plain  text
representation  of an ISO  accent  and  then to  expand  it into a proper  ISO
accented character. For example:-
.IP
.na
.nf
\fC`a\fR => small a, grave accent
\fC^a\fR => small a, circumflex accent
\fC'a\fR => small a, acute accent
\fC"a\fR => small a, umlaut
\fC~a\fR => small a, tilde
\fC.a\fR => small a, ring
\fC14\fR => fraction, one-quater
\fC12\fR => fraction, one-half
\fC34\fR => fraction, three-quaters
\fCae\fR => ae ligature
\fCsz\fR => small sz ligature, German.
\fC+-\fR => plus or minus (math.)
\fCco\fR => copyright
\fCrg\fR => registered trademark
\fCtm\fR => trade mark
\fCoe\fR => small oe ligature
\fC/o\fR => small o, slash
.fi
.ad
.PP
The  \fBexpand-iso-accents\fR  can be  called  directly  to  expands  the  ISO
abbreviated  character sequence into it's ISO ASCII character  equivalent. The
command  looks at the 2 characters to the left of the cursor and tries to find
a matching  abbreviation,  if found the 2 characters are removed,  replaced by
the single ISO character.
.PP
The more typical way of using this feature is by enabling its use in the
.Hl "abbreviation handler" expand-abbrev-handle 3
which is  usually  bound to "\fC\*e  \*e\fR".  It can be  enabled by either by
using   the   \fBiso-accents-mode\fR   command   or,  for  a  more   permanent
installation, from the
.Ht user-setup 3
=> General => Abbrev Expansion settings.
.PP
When using the  \fBiso-accents-mode\fR  command, if a numeric argument \fIn\fR
is given (the value is not used) then the ISO accent  expansion  is  installed
locally  into the  current  buffer. If \fIn\fR is omitted  then  expansion  is
enabled/disabled globally (across all buffers).
.PP
.B expand-iso-accents
is the macro command that   This is by default  bound to
\&. If an ISO character is not located then
.Ht expand-abbrev 2
is invoked to try a standard abbreviation.
.SH NOTES
\fBiso-accents-mode\fR and  \fBexpand-iso-accents\fR are implemented as macros
in the file  \fCabbrev.emf\fR, the repertoire of expansions may be enhanced by
editing this file.
.PP
Unlike the general
.Ht expand-abbrev 2
command  which  attempts to expand the current word,  \fBexpand-iso-accents\fR
only  considers  the last two  characters  regardless of whether they are word
characters or start a word. Therefore the general  \fBexpand-abbrev\fR command
cannot be used to implement a similar feature.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht buffer-abbrev-file 2 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ,
.Ht expand-look-back 3 ,
.Ht expand-word 3 .
.ad
.FH
