.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac080.3,v 2.3 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|scuts
.so me.tni
.TH save-session 3
.XI save-session - "Write session information to session file"
.XI session-setup - "Configure the data written to a session file"
.SH NAME
.Me "|save-session"
save-session \- Write session information to session file
.br
.Me "|c-hash-undo"
session-setup \- Configure the data written to a session file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B save-session
"\fIsession-file\fR"
.br
.B session-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B save-session
writes out \*(mE's current  session information  into the given session file.
.PP
The command
.Ht read-session 3
can set a default  session  file in which  case the  session is  automatically
written  out to this  file if an  argument  of zero is given;  the user is not
prompted for a file. \*(mE  automatically  tries to write the default  session
whenever it is exited.
.PP
The \fBsession-setp\fR command opens a simple dialog to configure the current session. The saving of the kill chain 
and bookmarks can be extremely useful, but can also greatly increase the size of a session file and the time 
taken to read and write it.
.SH NOTES
The session information is saved in a ascii format file (see
.Ht esf 8 ).
Reference should be made to the notes included in
.Ht esf 8
as to how the  session file may be  edited  and  effected  in the same  \*(mE
session.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht esf 8 ,
.Ht @h0 4 ,
.Ht read-session 3 .
.ad
.FH
