.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac014.3,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:13:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|games
.so me.tni
.TH Metris 3
.XI Metris - "\*(mE version of the falling blocks game"
.SH NAME
Metris \- \*(mE version of the falling blocks game
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBMetris\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Traditional  falling  blocks  game,  make  solid  horizontal  lines out of the
falling  blocks. The blocks can be rotated and moved left or right by the user
as they fall. Once a horizontal line is completely solid it will disappear and
everything  above it will drop down. A bonus is given if 3 solid rows are made
at the same time, i.e. using one block.
.PP
Every line you make the game  speeds up until it gets too fast!! The game ends
when there is no more room to put a block.
.PP
The keys used to control Metris are:
.IP "\fBleft\fR or \fBj\fR"
Move the block left one character.
.IP "\fBright\fR or \fBl\fR"
Move the block right one character.
.IP "\fBdown\fR or \fBk\fR"
Rotate the block counter-clockwise 90 degrees.
.IP \fBspace\fR
Drop the current block.
.IP \fBp\fR
Pause the current game.
.IP \fBq\fR
Quit the current game.
.IP \fBC-l\fR
Redraw the display.
.IP \fBreturn\fR
Start a new game.
.IP "\fBesc h\fR"
View this help page.
.SH NOTES
\fBMetris\fR is a macro defined in \fCmetris.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl Games Games - ,
.Ht Match-It 3 ,
.Ht Patience 3 .
.ad
.FH
