.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Fri Aug 7 07:32:59 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac028.3,v 2.8 2009/08/29 17:13:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH vm 3
.XI vm - "Email viewer"
.XI mail-check - "Check for new email"
.XI stop-mail-check - "Disable the check for new email"
.XI mail - "Compose and send an email"
.XI mail-setup - "Email setup dialog"
.SH NAME
.Me "|vm"
vm - Email viewer
.br
.Me "|mail-check"
mail-check - Check for new email
.br
.Me "|stop-mail-check"
stop-mail-check - Disable the check for new email
.br
.Me "|mail"
mail - Compose and send an email
.br
.Me "|mail-setup"
mail-setup - Email setup dialog
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B vm
.br
.B mail-check
.br
.B stop-mail-check
.br
.B mail
.br
.B mail-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvm\fR  is a simple  email  manager, it is  configured  to send and  receive
emails using the \fBmail-setup\fR dialog. It must be stressed that \fBvm\fR
has only  been  tested in one  environment,  caution  should be used as system
differences  may cause  problems,  such as loss of data, which the author does
not except any responsibility for.
.PP
\fBmail-check\fR  tests the size of this incoming mail box, a non-zero  length
indicates that new mail has arrived and  \fBmail-check\fR  informs the user by
inserting  a  '\fCM\fR'  in the  mode-line  (2nd  character  for the left) and
ringing the system bell. \fBmail-check\fR uses
.Ht create-callback 2
to check for new mail every 10  minutes,  this can be  disabled  by  executing
\fBstop-mail-check\fR.
.PP
When \fBvm\fR is executed it checks for new mail, if found it first copies the
new mail to a file called  "\fCnew_mail\fR"  in the users mail  directory. The
incoming box is then emptied by truncating  the file to zero length. The users
main mail box is then loaded and the new mail (if any) is  appended.  The mail
box is then  processed  after  which 2 windows  are created the bottom  window
listing all messages in the box and the top displaying the current message.
.PP
\fBvm\fR is capable of:
.BS
Scrolling  through the mail box displaying  each message  (\fCup\fR,  \fCp\fR,
\fCdown\fR, \fCn\fR, \fCreturn\fR, \fCspace\fR).
.BU
Check and get new mail messages (\fCg\fR).
.BU
Extract and cut embedded data files (\fCx\fR, \fCC\fR, \fCc\fR).
.BU
Reply to and forward mail messages (\fCR\fR, \fCr\fR, \fCz\fR).
.BU
Delete mail messages (\fCd\fR, \fCu\fR).
.BU
Archive messages to other mail boxes (\fCA\fR, \fCa\fR).
.BU
Save changes to the current mail box (\fCS\fR, \fCs\fR).
.BU
Delete the current mail box (\fCD\fR).
.BU
Visit another mail box (\fCv\fR).
.BU
Send a mail message (\fCm\fR).
.BU
Hide vm windows (\fCdelete\fR).
.BE
Use the vm help page (bound to "\fCesc h\fR") for further information.
.PP
\fBvm\fR  supports two types of embedded  data, uuencode and mime encoding and
uses
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
to extract the data, the  commanding to use must be supplied by the user using
the setup dialog, which can contain the following special tokens:
.IP \fC%i\fR
Temporary  file name, if used, the  embedded  data is written to the this file
first.
.IP \fC%o\fR
User supplied  output file name, if \fC%i\fR is not used, the embedded data is
written to this file first.
.IP \fC%b\fR
The output base name, i.e. \fC%o\fR without the path.
.PP
If no command line is supplied  then the embedded  data is written to the user
supplied file name as a text file in the form found in the mail message.
.PP
\fBmail\fR  can be used to compose and send an email, it can insert  embedded
data in a similar way to \fBvm\fR's  data  extraction,  the following  special
tokens can be used:
.IP \fC%i\fR
The user supplied data file to be embedded.
.IP \fC%b\fR
The input base name, i.e. \fC%i\fR without the path.
.IP \fC%o\fR
Temporary  file name used to output  the  processed  data  file,  this file is
inserted into the mail message using
.Ht insert-file 2 .
.PP
\fBmail\fR  also uses  \fBipipe-shell-command\fR to send the mail message, the
following special tokens can be used:
.IP \fC%f\fR
The from user name.
.IP \fC%s\fR
The email subject.
.IP \fC%t\fR
A comma separated list of 'To' recipients.
.IP \fC%c\fR
A comma separated list of 'Cc' recipients.
.IP \fC%o\fR
A file name of the mail message.
.PP
Any field not used in the command-line is left at the head of the mail message.
.SH "EXAMPLE - UNIX"
The  following  command-line  can be  used on most  UNIX  systems  to  extract
uuencoded data:
.CS
rm -f %o ; uudecode %i ; rm -f %i
.CE
The  following  command-line  can be  used on most  UNIX  systems  to  extract
mime encoded data:
.CS
rm -f /tmp/%b ; metamail -B -d -q -w -x -z %i ; mv -f /tmp/%b %o
.CE
The following command-line can be used on most UNIX systems to uuencode a data
file ready for it to be embedded, the original file is not changed:
.CS
uuencode %b < %i > %o
.CE
The following command-line can be used on most UNIX systems to send an email:
.CS
/usr/lib/sendmail -oi -oem -odi -t < %o
.CE 0
.SH "EXAMPLE - WIN32"
Typically the
.Hr cygwin 1
utilities  can be used  for data  insertion  and  extraction.  These  have the
advantage  of being very  similar to the unix ones so only minor  changes  are
required,  i.e. try the  following  for  data  insertion  and mime &  uuencode
extraction respectively:
.CS
del %o ^ uudecode %i ^ del %i
del c:\\tmp\\%b ^ metamail -B -d -q -w -x -z %i ^ move c:\\tmp\\%b %o
uuencode %b < %i > %o
.CE
This assumes that the shell you are using  supports the '\fC^\fR' multiple  commands
on a single line feature, this is supported by
.Hr 4dos 1
and
.Hr 4nt 1 .
If your shell does not support this feature a simple batch file command  could
be used instead.
.PP
.Hr postie 1
is a freely available  pop3/smpt e-mail support program, available on the net,
which can be used to provide a fully working  \fBvm\fR on windows  systems. As
it is typically used in a dial-up connect  environment,  the  \fBuser-setup\fR
\'Queue  Outgoing  Mail' option will be enabled while the 'Check Mail' and 'VM
Gets Mail' will be disabled.  This ensures that a connection is only made when
the \fBvm\fR '\fCg\fR' command is used which sets all queued outgoing mail and
gets any incoming mail.
.PP
The following  command-line can be used to get mail from your pop server using
postie:
.CS
postie -host:pop-mail-addr -user:user-addr -pass:password -file:inbox
        "-sep:From root Mon Jan 11 20:02:02 1999" -raw -rm
.CE
Where the \fCinbox\fR is the 'Incoming Mail Box' file specified in user-setup.
The \fC-sep\fR option is used to partition each mail message from the previous
message, this string is used as it is in a unix standard form so the resulting
mail box could be understood by unix mail systems such as netscape etc.
.PP
NOTE: The \fB-rm\fR  option is used to remove the incoming  mail messages from
the server. It is strongly  recommended  that the system is thoroughly  tested
without this option first.
.PP
The following  command-line can be used to send mail to your smtp server using
postie:
.CS
postie -host:smtp-mail-addr "-from:user@mail-addr" -use_mime:0
        "-to:%t" "-s:%s" "-cc:%c" "-file:%o"
.CE
.Hr blat 1
is another  freely  available  windows  program which can be used to send mail
with the following command-line:
.CS
blat %o -f %f -s \\"%s\\" -t \\"%t\\" -c \\"%c\\"
.CE 0
.SH "E-Mail Setup"
The \fBE-Mail Setup\fR dialog is opened by executing the \fBmail-setup\fR command and configures a user to use part or
all of the \fBvm\fR E-Mail manager, as follows:-
.IP "\fCUser Mail Dir\fR"
Sets the user mail-box  directory  where all files are to be found and stored  (except  usually the
\fBIncoming  Mail box\fR). The value of this field is platform independent and must be setup for each one.
.PP
The following fields are used for sending mail:
.IP "\fCSend Mail Signature\fR"
Sets the  signature  file name which is  inserted  at the bottom of every  out-going  email  message,  if empty the no
signature is inserted. The value of this field is platform  independent, is value use by all. The file must be located
in the \fBUser Mail Dir\fR and no path entered for it to work across platforms.
.IP "\fCCarbon-Copy File\fR"
Sets the sent-mail  carbon-copy  file,  creating the  "\fCFcc:\fR"  line of the mail buffer. All out-going  emails are
appended  to the end of this  file if the  "\fCFcc:\fR"  line is not  altered.  If this  field is left  empty  then no
"\fCFcc:\fR" line is created. The value of this field is platform independent, the file must be located in the
\fBUser Mail Dir\fR.
.IP "\fCInsert Data (^C^I)\fR"
Sets the first embedded data command line, bound to "\fCC-c C-I\fR". The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCInsert Data (^C^Z)\fR"
Sets the second embedded data command line, bound to "\fCC-c C-z\fR". The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCSend Mail Command\fR"
Sets the command-line used for sending email messages. The value of this field is platform dependent.
.PP
The following fields are used for receiving mail:
.IP "\fCCheck for mail\fR"
Sets the time  interval  between the  automatic  checking for incoming  mail in seconds,  when set to 0 the  automatic
checking is disabled. When enabled, the check is performed by
.Ht mail-check 3
which also sends any queued mail and gets any new mail if the
.B "Get Mail Command"
is used. The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCGet Mail Command\fR"
The command used to get new mail from the server, if empty it is assumed the \fBIncoming Mail Box\fR is  automatically
updated by the system. If used the command must append new mail to the end of the  \fBIncoming  Mail Box\fR  specified
below. The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCIncoming Mail Box\fR"
Sets the incoming mail box file which new incoming mail is appended to, either  automatically  by the system or by the
\fBGet Mail Command\fR. The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCVM Main In Box\fR"
Sets the main current mail box, or inbox. The value of this field is platform independent, the file must be located in
the \fBUser Mail Dir\fR.
.IP "\fCVM Gets Mail\fR"
When enabled, executing the command vm will not only create the mail box windows, it will also get and process any new
mail. When disabled only the vm \&'\fCg\fR' command can be used to get and process new mail.
.IP "\fCMime Data Extract\fR"
Sets the command-line used for extracting Mime encoded embedded data. The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCUuencode Extract\fR"
Sets the command-line used for extracting Uuencoded embedded data. The value of this field is platform dependent.
.IP "\fCAuto-Archive Setup\fR"
Sets up the auto-archive of messages in the current inbox to other mail boxes.
.SH NOTES
\fBvm\fR is a macro defined in \fCvm.emf\fR, \fBmail-check\fR, \fBstop-mail-check\fR and \fBmail\fR are macros defined
in \fCmail.emf\fR.
.PP
\fBvm\fR has only been tested in a couple of environments, the author will not except any  responsibility for any loss
of data, i.e. use at your own peril. You have been warned! Back-up all data files and test \fBvm\fR  THOROUGHLY before
using it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ,
.Ht create-callback 2 ,
.Hr sendmail 1 .
.ad
.FH

