.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac006.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.so me.tni
.TH replace-all-string 3
.XI replace-all-string - "Replace string with new string in a list of files"
.SH NAME
replace-all-string \- Replace string with new string in a list of files
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBreplace-all-string\fR
"\fIfrom\fR"
"\fIto\fR" "\fIfiles\fR" ["\fIgrep-from\fR"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBreplace-all-string\fR, similar to
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
replaces all  occurrences  of  "\fIfrom\fR" to "\fIto\fR" in the given list of
files without prompting the user.
.PP
The command finds all occurrences of "\fIfrom\fR" by calling the command
.Ht grep 3
to search for string  "\fIfrom\fR" in files  "\fIfiles\fR".  Thus all relevant
edited files must be saved or  \fBgrep\fR  may return the wrong line  numbers.
This is achieved by a call to
.Ht save-some-buffers 2 
which prompts the user to save any changed buffers one at a time.
.PP
Each occurrence of "\fIfrom\fR" is jumped to using
.Ht get-next-line 2
and the string is replaced by the call:
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
-1 replace-string "from" "to"
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
This replaces all  occurrences  of  "\fIfrom\fR"  to "\fIto\fR" on the current
line only, hence the line  numbers  must be correct.  This also means that the
"\fIfrom\fR"  search  string  must be  correctly  formatted  for both grep and
replace-string, unless bit 0x02 is set (see below).
.PP
The given  argument  \fIn\fR is a bit based  flag which  changes  the  default
behavior described above. The bits have the following effect:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Prompt  before saving any changed  buffer,  enabled by default. If this bit is
not set then any changed buffer is  automatically  saved before the \fBgrep\fR
is performed.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If set then a fourth  argument  "\fIgrep-from\fR"  must  also be  given.  This
string is used in place of the "\fIfrom\fR" string for the \fBgrep\fR only. 
.SH NOTES
\fBreplace-all-string\fR is a macro defined in \fCsearch.emf\fR.
.PP
The  \fBgrep\fR  command  must be working  before  this  command can  function
properly.
.PP
It is not  recommended to use a "from" or "to" string which uses more that one
line as the results may be unpredictable.
.PP
As the change is likely to be over several  files a single call to
.Ht undo 2
at the end of  execution  will not undo all the changes  made. To undo all the
changes made, use
.Ht get-next-line 2
to loop through all the occurrences and call \fBundo\fR for each occurrence
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
.Ht save-some-buffers 2 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Ht undo 2 ,
.Ht query-replace-all-string 3 ,
.Ht replace-all-pairs 3 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 .
.ad
.FH
