.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac015.3,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:11:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|games
.so me.tni
.TH Patience 3
.XI Patience - "\*(mE version of Patience (or Solitaire)"
.SH NAME
Patience \- \*(mE version of Patience (or Solitaire)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBPatience\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
Patience (or  Solitaire)  is a solitaire  game using a standard set of playing
cards. The  object of the game is to use all of the cards in the deck to build
up four suit stacks from Ace to King.
.PP
The board is laid out with the  dealer  pile at the top right hand  corner, to
the left are four suit stacks onto which cards of the same suit are placed, in
ascending order from the Ace. Below these two areas of the board are seven row
stacks,  organized  in a  triangular  shape with zero to six  downward  facing
cards.
.PP
Cards may be moved  around the playing  area by stacking  alternative  red and
black  cards in  descending  order on the row stacks.  When a row stack has no
upturned  cards on the stack  then the top card may be turned  over and may be
played. If a stack becomes empty then only a King may be moved into the vacant
position.  Cards may be removed from the dealer, they are  over-turned in sets
of three cards, the  underlying  2 cards are visible, but are not  accessible,
only the top card may be removed and played from the dealer.
.PP
Cards are moved  around the board using the mouse. Cards may be moved from the
dealer or  between  the row  stacks by  placing  the mouse over the card to be
moved and  pressing  the left  mouse  button.  Move the cursor to the new card
position  and  release  the left  mouse  button. If the move is legal then the
card(s) are moved to the new stack.  Multiple  cards may be moved from the row
stacks, the appropriate card(s) to be moved is automatically determined.
.PP
Cards  may be moved  onto the suit  stacks by a single  left  mouse  press and
release on the same card, the card is moved to the appropriate suit stack. The
same  technique is used to turn cards over in the suit stacks, and to deal the
next set of cards by the dealer. To deal, then click on the  down-turned  card
stack, if there are no  further  cards at the  dealer  then click on the empty
position  and the dealer will turn over the dealer stack and deal from the top
again.
.PP
Note  that  once a card is  played  onto the suit  stacks  then it  cannot  be
removed.
.PP
To the  right of the  board  are a number  of  control  buttons.  To select an
option, click the left mouse button on it, the buttons are labeled:
.IP \fBDEAL\fR
Start a new game by dealing new cards.
.IP \fBQUIT\fR
Exit the game
.IP \fBHELP\fR
This help page
.PP
Note that the screen may be updated at any time using "\fIC-l\fR".
.SH NOTES
\fBPatience\fR is a macro defined in \fCpatience.emf\fR.
.PP
The  game is best  played  with a  mouse,  it is  possible  to play  with  the
keyboard, as follows:-
.IP
"\fIesc h\fR" for help
.IP
To move a card between stacks enter the source and  destination  column number
("\fI1\fR","\fI2\fR",.."\fI7\fR").  To move  from  the  dealer  pile  then the
source is the "\fIspace\fR" key.
.IP
"\fItab\fR" deals the next cards.
.IP
To  overturn a card on the row stacks  then enter the card  column  twice i.e.
source and destination are the same.
.IP
To move a card  from the row to the suit  stacks  then  either  enter the card
column       twice,       or       enter       the        destination       as
"\fIh\fR","\fId\fR","\fIc\fR","\fIs\fR"  (i.e. "\fI2  2\fR" or "\fI2  s\fR" to
move the card in column 2 to the spades stack).
.IP
"\fIC-c C-c\fR" to deal the cards again.
.IP
"\fIC-l\fR" redraw the screen.
.IP
"\fIq\fR" to quit the game.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl Games Games - ,
.Ht Triangle 3 ,
.Ht Mahjongg 3 .
.ad
.FH
