.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac074.3,v 1.3 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.ds C0 "(\fB\*cc s\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*cc r\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH narrow-search-forward 3
.XI narrow-search-forward - "\*(C0Search for a string in the forward direction"
.XI narrow-search-backward - "\*(C1Search for a string in the backward direction"
.SH NAME
.Me "|narrow-search-forward"
narrow-search-forward \- Search for a string in the forward direction
.br
.Me "|narrow-search-backward"
narrow-search-backward \- Search for a string in the backward direction
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B narrow-search-forward
"\fIstring\fR" \*(C0
.br
.I n
.B narrow-search-backward
"\fIstring\fR" \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B narrow-search-forward
searches for a string from the current cursor  position to the end of the file
and will open up and search through
.Ht narrow 2m 
regions to search for the string. This differs from the 
.Ht search-forward 2 
command that does not search through narrow regions.
.PP
The string is typed on the bottom line of the screen, and terminated  with the
\fC<ESC>\fR  key. Special  characters can be typed in by preceding them with a
\fC^Q\fR. A single \fC^Q\fR  indicates a null string. On successive  searches,
hitting \fC<ESC>\fR alone causes the last search string to be reused.
.PP
Searching is affected by
.Ht magic 2m
mode, which allows regular  expression  pattern
matching, and
.Ht exact 2m
mode which makes the search case sensitive.
.PP
The numeric argument
.I n
is interpreted as follows:-
.IP "\fBn > 0\fR"
The \fIn\fRth occurrence of the \fIstring\fR is located.
.IP "\fBn < 0\fR"
The first occurrence of the \fIstring\fR is located in the next \fIn\fR lines.
.PP
.B narrow-search-backward
searches  backwards in  the file.  In all  other ways  it is like
.BR narrow-search-forward .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The command returns a status of \fCFALSE\fR if the  \fIstring\fR  could not be
located (or \fIn\fRth  \fIstring\fR where \fIn\fR  occurrences are requested).
If the  \fIstring\fR  is found  within the given  search  criteria  the return
status is \fCTRUE\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2  ,
.Ht exact 2m ,
.Ht hunt-backward 2 ,
.Ht hunt-forward 2 ,
.Ht isearch-forward 2 ,
.Ht magic 2m ,
.Ht replace-string 2 .
.Ht search-forward 2 ,
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
