.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac030.3,v 2.7 2025/03/25 20:16:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*ch\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH find-hfile 3
.XI find-hfile - "\*(C0Load a file using selected handler"
.XI find-bfile - "Load a file as binary data"
.XI find-cfile - "Load an encrypted file"
.XI find-ufile - "Load a Unicode file"
.SH NAME
.Me "|find-hfile"
find-hfile \- Load a file using selected handler
.br
.Me "|find-bfile"
find-bfile \- Load a file as binary data
.br
.Me "|find-cfile"
find-cfile \- Load an encrypted file
.br
.Me "|find-ufile"
find-cfile \- Load a Unicode file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B find-hfile
"\fIh\fR" "\fIfile-name\fR" \*(C0
.br
.I n
.B find-bfile
"\fIfile-name\fR"
.br
.I n
.B find-cfile
"\fIfile-name\fR"
.br
.I n
.B find-ufile
"\fIfile-name\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfind-hfile\fR first prompts the user for the read handler \fIh\fR required to load the file into \*(mS, where
\fIh\fR can be:
.IP \fBC\fR
As with \fBc\fR below except that the user is prompted for a second handler which is combined with crypt. Supported
secondary handlers are \fBb\fR, \fBl\fR, \fBr\fR, \fBt\fR and \fBu\fR. When used this handler must be given first.
.IP \fBb\fR
Standard binary file handler, see 
.Ht binary 2m
mode for more information.
.IP \fBc\fR
Encrypted file handler, see 
.Ht crypt 2m
mode for more information.
.IP \fBl\fR
Lossless text file handler, allows loading of any file, including binary files, as if a normal text file while 
preserving every byte. This allows easy searching for text strings within any file, but care needs to be taken if 
editing as binary files are easily corrupted. See command 
.Ht translate-buffer 2
for more information on the lossless text format.
.IP \fBr\fR
Reduced binary file handler, see 
.Ht rbin 2m
mode for more information.
.IP \fBt\fR
Normal text file, equivalent to standard use of
.Ht find-file 2 .
.IP \fBu\fR
Unicode text file handler, see \fBfind-ufile\fR below for more information.
.IP \fBz\fR
Zip file handler, see 
.Ht find-zfile 3
for more information. This handler cannot currently be combined with \fBC\fR.
.PP
The macro then calls the appropriate underlying command with the required numerical argument to load \fIfile-name\fR
correctly.
.PP
\fBfind-bfile\fR and \fBfind-cfile\fR provide a simple interface to loading files in
.Ht binary 2m
and
.Ht crypt 2m
modes respectively. The numeric argument has the same effect as with the
.Ht find-file 2
command except the respective modes are always enabled. See documentation on the modes an \fBfind-file\fR command for
more information.
.PP
\fBfind-ufile\fR allows loading of any UTF-8, UTF-16 or UTF-32 encoded Unicode file as if a normal text file, while preserving every
character (except those in the last \fC0x100000\fR Unicode plane). This allows for easy reading and editing of all languages
supported by the current charset of \*(mS. Care must be taken to avoid corrupting the byte sequences of characters not
supported by the current charset, see command 
.Ht translate-buffer 2
for more information on the Unicode preserving text format used.
.SH NOTES
\fBfind-hfile\fR, \fBfind-bfile\fR, \fBfind-cfile\fR and \fBfind-ufile\fR are macros defined in file \fCtools.emf\fR.
.PP
Buffers containing directory listings generated by \fBfind-file\fR and zip content listings created by
\fBfind-zfile\fR provide a similar interface to \fBfind-hfile\fR bound to the letter \fBh\fR. 
.PP
The command
.Ht find-file 2
is bound to key "\fC\*(cX9\fR" with a numeric argument of 3, this is equivalent to executing \fBfind-bfile\fR with no
argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht find-zfile 3 ,
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht crypt 2m ,
.Ht rbin 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
