.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac047.3,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|scuts
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*(eS\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH expand-abbrev-handle 3
.XI expand-abbrev-handle - "\*(C0Expand an abbreviation handler"
.SH NAME
expand-abbrev-handle \- Expand an abbreviation handler
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBexpand-abbrev-handle\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B expand-abbrev-handle
pulls  together all forms of  abbreviation  expansion into a single command so
that  it  can  be  bound  to  a  single  key.  The  abbreviation  must  be  an
alpha-numeric  string and the cursor must be one  position to the right of the
abbreviation  (which must not be  alpha-numeric)  when this command is called.
The command attempts to expand the abbreviation  using the following  commands
in turn:
.PP
.Ht expand-abbrev 2
.IP
Uses a buffer specific and global  abbreviation  files, if set, to look up the
abbreviation. The use of the abbreviation file can be disabled using
.Ht buffer-setup 3 .
.PP
.Ht expand-iso-accents 3
.IP
Expands ISO accent letter if the expansion mode is enabled via either the
.Ht user-setup 3
General Page or by using the
.Ht iso-accents-mode 3
command.
.PP
.Ht expand-look-back 3
.IP
Looks for a word  starting  the same in the current  buffer's  last 100 lines,
this can be enabled in the
.Ht user-setup 3
General page.
.PP
\fBBuffer specific expansion\fR
.IP
Executes a buffer specific abbreviation expansion if the current buffer's
.Hl "file hook" fileHooks 2
supports abbreviation expansion.
.PP
\fBWord expansion\fR
.IP
If the current  buffer does not support file type  specific  expansion and Word Expansion is enabled via the
.Ht user-setup 3
General  page  (\fCDict'n\fR  setting)  expansion is attempted using the
.Ht expand-word 3
command which expands the current  partial word using the dictionary
of the user's current language; warning - this can be slow!
.PP
The command exits after first command to successfully expand or if none expand
the command fails. See the help in the individual  expansion commands for more
help.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ,
.Ht expand-iso-accents 3 ,
.Ht expand-look-back 3 ,
.Ht expand-word 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
