.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 2000 Jasspa.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac050.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Tue Jan 25 23:22:52 2000
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000 Jasspa.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jasspa.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.Id $Id: m3mac050.3,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:29:35 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH ftp 3
.XI ftp - "Initiate an FTP connection"
.SH NAME
ftp \- Initiate an FTP connection
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B ftp
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ftp
initiates a File  Transfer  Protocol (FTP)  connection to a remote host on the
network.  Using FTP, editing of files may be performed in much the same way as
on the local file system.  Directory  listings  may be retrieved  and traversed
using the mouse or cursor  keys.  Using the  directory  listing,  files may be
transfered to/from the remote host to the local machine.
.PP
On issuing the command  then a dialog is  presented to the user which
is used to open the connection. The dialog entries are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fBRegistry File\fR"
The name of a \*(mS registry file which is used to store the FTP  information.
If a registry name is provided then all FTP address  information  is stored in
the  registry  file and  saved  for later  sessions.  Be aware  that  password
information  is saved in this file as plain text if a password is entered into
the site information.
.IP
If the  registry  information  is omitted  then the  information  is not saved
between sessions.
.IP "\fBSite Name\fR"
An ASCII  pseudo name for the remote host. The  pull-down  menu may be used to
select existing sites that have been previously entered.
.IP "\fBHost Address\fR"
The address of the host, this may be an IP address  (\fC111.222.333.444\fR) or
a DNS name (i.e. \fCftp.mysite.com\fR).
.IP "\fBUser Name\fR"
The login name for the site. If this is omitted  then  \fCguest\fR  is used by
default.
.IP "\fBPassword\fR"
The password  used to enter the site for the given login name. If the password
is NOT supplied  then the user is prompted for the password when a transaction
takes  place. If the  password  is  omitted  and left to promt  then it is not
stored in the registry.
.IP
Take note of the
comments provided above regarding the password information.
.IP "\fBInitial Host Path\fR"
The  starting  directory  at the remote host. If this is omitted then the root
directory ('\fC/\fR') is used by default.
.PP
On selecting  \fBConnect\fR  then a FTP  connection  is opened and the initial
directory  appears as a directory  listing, if the initial path is a file then
the file is loaded into the editor.
.PP
Thereafter  the file may be edited  within  the  editor as  normal, on a write
operation then the file is written back to the host, via FTP.
.PP
On opening a FTP connection the progress of the transfer, and the FTP commands
issued,  may be viewed in the  \fC*ftp-console*\fR  buffer.  This  buffer  may
automatically appear depending upon the value of the
.Ht %ftp-flags 5
variable.
.SH NOTES
.B ftp
is a macro implemented in \fCftp.emf\fR. This uses the underlying command
.Ht find-file 2
to implement the FTP transfer.
.PP
FTP files can be directly  loaded and edited using the standard  file commands
such as
.Ht find-file 2 .
.PP
The FTP addresses are retained in a registry file (see
.Ht erf 8 ).
The  registry  file is  automatically  loaded when  MicroEmacs  starts up each
session. The current site information may be viewed using
.Ht list-registry 2
and is located at the following registry addresses:-
.IP "\fB/url\fR"
Data value is file system location of the FTP registry file.
.IP "\fB/url/ftp/\fR\|\fI<hostName>\fR"
The name of the host to which the connection is to be made.
.IP "\fB/url/ftp/\fR\|\fI<hostName>\fR\|\fB/host\fR"
The name or IP address of the remote host
.IP "\fB/url/ftp/\fR\|\fI<hostName>\fR\|\fB/user\fR"
The user name used to log into the remote host.
.IP "\fB/url/ftp/\fR\|\fI<hostName>\fR\|\fB/pass\fR"
The user  password to the remote host. If this entry is empty then the user is
always prompted for the password when the connection is made.
.IP "\fB/url/ftp/\fR\|\fI<hostName>\fR\|\fB/path\fR"
The initial path at the remote site.
.PP
When a FTP connection is initiated then the connection  (socket)  remains open
for a period of  approximately  4 minutes from the last  transfer  time, after
that the connection is  automatically  closed and is  re-initiated if required
again.
.PP
.B NOTE:
For windows  platforms  then the resultant  executable  must be built with URL
support  enabled, for \s-1UNIX\s0  platforms  socket support is  automatically
enabled.
.SH BUGS
Directory completion is not available when the current working directory is an
FTP address. To work around this from the command line, select  \fC<RETURN>\fR
to get a  directory  listing of the current  directory  and select the file(s)
from the directory to load.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %ftp-flags 5 ,
.Ht erf 8 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht file-op 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2 .
.ad
.FH
