.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac020.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.so me.tni
.TH replace-all-pairs 3
.XI replace-all-pairs - "Replace string pairs in a list of files"
.SH NAME
replace-all-pairs \- Replace string pairs in a list of files
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBreplace-all-pairs\fR
"\fIfiles\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBreplace-all-pairs\fR  uses the current buffer to extract  "\fIfrom\fR"  and
"\fIto\fR"  pairs  and  then  replaces  all  occurrences  of  "\fIfrom\fR"  to
"\fIto\fR" in the given list of files  without  prompting the user. The format
of the current buffer must be:
.CS
/from1/to1/
Xfrom2Xto2X
?from3?to3?
  .
  .
/fromN/toN/
.CE
For each pair the command finds all occurrences of "\fIfrom\fR" by calling the
command
.Ht grep 3
to search for string  "\fIfrom\fR" in files  "\fIfiles\fR".  Thus all relevant
edited files must be saved or  \fBgrep\fR  may return the wrong line  numbers.
This is achieved by a call to
.Ht save-some-buffers 2 
between  each replace  pair, it is called with an argument of 0 to ensure that
any changed buffers are automatically saved.
.PP
Each occurrence of "\fIfrom\fR" is jumped to using
.Ht get-next-line 2
and the string is replaced by the call:
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
-1 replace-string "from" "to"
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
This replaces all  occurrences  of  "\fIfrom\fR"  to "\fIto\fR" on the current
line only, hence the line  numbers  must be correct.  This also means that the
"\fIfrom\fR"  search  string  must be  correctly  formatted  for both grep and
replace-string.
.PP
The given  argument  \fIn\fR is a bit based  flag which  changes  the  default
behavior described above. The bits have the following effect:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Prompt  before  saving  any  changed  buffers  FIRST  time  ONLY,  enabled  by
default. If set then the user is also prompted to continue  before any changes
are made. If this bit is not set then the  command  executes  without any user
input.
.SH NOTES
\fBreplace-all-pairs\fR is a macro defined in \fCsearch.emf\fR.
.PP
The  \fBgrep\fR  command  must be working  before  this  command can  function
properly.
.PP
It is not  recommended to use a "from" or "to" string which uses more that one
line as the results may be unpredictable.
.PP
As the change is likely to be several  pair  strings with each changed  buffer
being saved between pairs
.Ht undo 2
cannot be used to undo the changes.  Neither can the backups be relied on as a
buffer may be saved more than once in this  process,  therefore it is strongly
recommend  that a backup  of the  files is made  before  commencing  with this
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht replace-all-string 3 ,
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
.Ht save-some-buffers 2 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht get-next-line 2 ,
.Ht undo 2 ,
.Ht query-replace-all-string 3 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 .
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.FH
