.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac105.3,v 2.2 2025/09/26 06:45:17 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|shell
.so me.tni
.TH xrdb-scheme 3
.XI xrdb-scheme - "Load a XRDB scheme file from the user's config folder"
.SH NAME
xrdb-scheme \- Load a XRDB scheme file from the user's config folder
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B xrdb-scheme 
"\fI[scheme-name...\fR]"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrdb-scheme 
"\fI[scheme-name...]\fR"
.na
loads from the themes folder within the users config  directory the given xrdb
scheme file. The scheme name should be given without extension. If no argument
is given, the user can interactively select the scheme from the command line.
.ad
.SH NOTES
The command  allows to use  different  editor editor themes  without  creating
individual  scheme macro  files. A web resource  which  currently  has more  than 400 color
schemes and their xrdb files that are usable with \*(mS is:-
.IP
.C https://github.com/mbadolato/iTerm2-Color-Schemes
.LP
The user has to download the raw xrdb files from that side and place them into
a themes  folder  within the users \*(mS config  folder.  Below is a little  example
command line for Unix systems to download 3 color schemes:
.RS
.CS
mkdir ~/.config/jasspa/meuser/themes
wget -O ~/.config/jasspa/meuser/themes/mathias.xrdb \\
  https://github.com/mbadolato/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/raw/master/xrdb/Mathias.xrdb
wget -O ~/.config/jasspa/meuser/themes/material-light.xrdb \\
  https://github.com/mbadolato/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/raw/master/xrdb/Material.xrdb
wget -O ~/.config/jasspa/meuser/themes/material-dark.xrdb \\
  https://github.com/mbadolato/iTerm2-Color-Schemes/raw/master/xrdb/Material%20Dark.xrdb
.CE 0
.RE
.PP
After you executed these commands you should be able to use the downloaded
themes after executing: \fBEsc x\fR and \fBxrdb-scheme\fR and then pressing two
times   the   TAB   key.   Feel   free  to   browse   that   README   on  the
\fBiTerm2-Color-Schemes\fR  project  page and then  replace the wget code with
the theme names. 
.PP
Please note that to change the  appearance  of these  schemes
you can't use the \fBscheme-editor(3)\fR command,
but you have to change the color values directly within the xrdb file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.ad
.FH
