.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac031.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Aug 31 21:02:32 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac031.3,v 2.4 2001-07-14 10:11:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH man 3
.XI man \- "UNIX manual page viewer"
.XI man-clean \- "Clean UNIX manual page"
.SH NAME
man \- UNIX manual page viewer.
man-clean - Clean UNIX manual page.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBman\fR
.br
\fBman-clean\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBman\fR  provides  a  mechanism  to display a UNIX  manual  page  within the
MicroEmacs  window. On invoking \fBman\fR the user is prompted for the name of
the manual page to display:-
.CS
Man on ?
.CE
The name of the manual page (and any options) are entered on the command line.
The macro invokes the UNIX utility
.Hr man 1
to generate the page and displays the results in a window.
.PP
Another  manual  page can be selected by either  moving the cursor to the link
and pressing return or double clicking on it with the left mouse button. \*(mS
will then attempt to load and display the selected manual page.
.PP
\fBman-clean\fR  removes any man-page formatting codes from the current buffer
reducing a manual page to plain text. The formatting  codes are used to create
the bold and  underline  fonts. This allows the page to be treated as a normal
buffer, i.e. string searches and other similar command will work as expected.
.SH NOTES
\fBman\fR and \fBman-clean\fR are macros defined in \fChkman.emf\fR.
.PP
.B man
is only made available within \s-1UNIX\s0  environments, the \s-1UNIX\s0 start
up file \fCunixterm.emf\fR  links in the macro. If the \fBman\fR
utility is required  on other  platforms  then the  following  definition  is
required in a start-up file.
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
define-macro-file hkman man
.CE 0
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht man 9 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 .
.ad
.FH
