.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2009-2022 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac091.3,v 2.1 2025/08/31 19:09:57 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs scuts
.so me.tni
.TH encase 3
.XI encase - "Encase a region with start/end string"
.SH NAME
encase \- Encase a region with start/end string
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|encase"
.I n
.B encase
"\|\fIstart-string\fR\|"
"\|\fIend-string\fR\|"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B encase
provides a short cut to encapsulate a selected region of text with a \fIstart-string\fR and \fIend-string\fR. The
command is modal and operates in two different operating modes as follows.
.PP
First run
.B encase
without a current region section (i.e. no selected highlighted text) and the user is prompted for the
\fIstart-string\fR and \fIend-string\fR. The user is also prompted if the command has not been run before and the
\fIstart-string\fR and \fIend-string\fR are undefined.
.PP
With the strings defined then select a region with the mouse or keyboard (\fB\*espace\fR and \fBmove\fR or
\fB\*smove\fR) to define the start and end point of the region. With a selected region then execute the
.B encase
command using \fB\*ex\fR \fBencase\fR. This is most effective when bound to a simple key, see
.Ht global-bind-key 2 .
.PP
The numeric argument \fIn\fR is used to modify the default behavior of the command, where the bits are defined as
follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
When set the start and end location is determined by the position in the buffer, the start being first in the buffer. 
When this bit is clear the start position in always the start of the region regardless of where it is in the buffer. 
When defining the \fIstart\fR and \fIend\fR strings, i.e. no region is defined or bit \fB4\fR is set, the value of 
this bit is used as a default for subsequent calls when no argument is given.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When set the current mark and cursor positions are used as the start and end position rather than the current region, 
this removes the need for a current region.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
The \fIstart\fR and \fIend\fR strings are always prompted for when this bit is set.
.SH NOTES
.B encase 
is a macro defined in \fCmisc.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht global-bind-key 2 .
.ad
.FH
