.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac072.3,v 2.2 2009/08/29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|delete|region|insert
.so me.tni
.TH copy-rectangle 3
.XI copy-rectangle - "Copy a rectangular region of text"
.XI yank-rectangle-overwrite - "Insert a column of text with overwrite"
.SH NAME
.Me "|copy-rectangle"
copy-rectangle \- Copy a rectangular region of text
.br
.Me "|yank-rectangle-overwrite"
yank-rectangle-overwrite \- Insert a column of text with overwrite
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B copy-rectangle
.br
.B yank-rectangle-overwrite
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B copy-rectangle
copies a rectangle (or column) of text defined between the cursor and the
.Hl set-mark set-mark 2
position.  The text  between the mark column and the cursor  column is copied
from every line between the mark line and the cursor line inclusive and copied
to the kill buffer. The copied text may then be extracted from the kill buffer
using
.Ht yank 2 ,
.Ht yank-rectangle 2 
or 
.BR yank-rectangle-overwrite .
.PP
The mark position may be ahead or behind the current  cursor  position. If the
rectangle column boundary divides a tab character which spans multiple columns,
the tab character is replaced with the equivalent  number of spaces. Similarly
if the boundary  divides an  unprintable  character  which is displayed  using
multiple  characters  (e.g.  '\fC^A\fR'  for  character  0x01) then spaces are
inserted before the character to move it to the right of the boundary.
.PP
.B yank-rectangle-overwrite
replaces a column of text with the current kill buffer,  overwriting  existing
text  with the  contents  of the kill  buffer. The kill buffer should  contain
a rectangle region acquired with \fBcopy-rectangle\fR or 
.Ht kill-rectangle 2 .
The  current  cursor  position  identifies  the top left of the  column  to be
written, the width of the column to be replaced is  determined by the width of
the kill buffer text being inserted.
.PP
Where an overwrite is not required then use
.Ht yank-rectangle 2 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-region 2 ,
.Ht kill-rectangle 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
.Ht reyank 2 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 ,
.Ht string-rectangle 3 , 
.Ht undo 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 ,
.Ht yank-rectangle 2 .
.ad
.FH
