.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac046.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 18:16:21 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac055.3,v 2.3 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell
.so me.tni
.TH perldb 3
.XI perldb - "Perl Debugger"
.SH NAME
perldb \- Perl Debugger
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B perldb
[ "\fIscript-name\fR" ]
"\fIscript-args\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBperldb\fR provides an editor interface to the Perl debugger, on running the
command an  interactive  shell  window is opened to the debugger  command line
interface. \*(mS then interprets the information  from the debugger  interface
and opens files and hilights the current line as required. The current line is
maintained while single stepping through the script.
.PP
Buffers opened and referenced by the debugger have the key \fCF9\fR  bound to
setting a break  point,  this only works if the buffer  contains  the  current
execution point.
.PP
If an argument  \fIn\fR of 2 is given to \fBperldb\fR the command assumes that
the  current  buffer  is the  script  file to debug,  the  "\fCscript-name\fR"
argument is not prompted for.
.SH NOTES
\fBperldb\fR is a macro defined in file \fChkipipe.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
The  '\fBR\fR'  rerun  command does not work  correctly on Windows  platforms,
perldb is rerun in a newly  created  external  dos command  window  instead of
inside the \*(mS ipipe buffer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht gdb 3 ,
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 .
.ad
.FH
