.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"  			Copyright 1998 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        : 
.\"  Module        : 
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac026.3
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Fri Aug 7 07:32:59 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description	
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"	
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 JASSPA.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied, 
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac026.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|paragraph
.ds C0 "(\fB\*eq\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH ifill-paragraph 3
.XI ifill-paragraph \- "\*(C0Format a paragraph"
.SH NAME
ifill-paragraph \- Format a paragraph
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBifill-paragraph\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBifill-paragraph\fR,  like \fBfill-paragraph\fR,  fills the current paragraph from the
left  margin to the current  fill  column. In addition  ifill-paragraph  also
recognizes joined bullet lists and fills each bullet paragraph separately.
.PP
See
.Ht fill-paragraph 2
for more information on the process of filling paragraphs.
.SH EXAMPLE
Following are 2 copies of the same  paragraph, the first has been filled using
\fBifill-paragraph\fR:
.CS
This  is the  main  paragraph  which  can be as long as  required,
following is a list of bullets, some with a sub-bullet  list. Here
is the list:
    a) The bullet paragraph can also be as long as required and it
       also can have a bullet  list  following  (sub-bullet  list)
       which will also be filled correctly. Here is the sub-bullet
       list:
       1. First  sub-bullet - again no length  restrictions,  this
          will be filled correctly.
       2. second sub-bullet - no problems.
       3. Third sub-bullet - again no length restrictions, this is
          getting boring.
    b) This is the second  major bullet and this can just carry on
       for ever, but all things must come to an
.CE
The following version has been filled using the normal \fBfill-paragraph\fR:
.CS
This  is the  main  paragraph  which  can be as long as  required,
following is a list of bullets, some with a sub-bullet  list. Here
is the  list:  a) The  bullet  paragraph  can  also  be as long as
required and it also can have a bullet list following  (sub-bullet
list) which will also be filled  correctly. Here is the sub-bullet
list: 1. First  sub-bullet  - again no length  restrictions,  this
will be filled  correctly. 2. second  sub-bullet - no problems. 3.
Third sub-bullet - again no length  restrictions,  this is getting
boring. b) This is the second major bullet and this can just carry
on for ever, but all things must come to an
.CE 0                  
.SH NOTES
\fBifill-paragraph\fR is a macro defined in \fCformat.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht paragraph-to-line 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH

