.Id $Id: m3mac035.3,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:29:26 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell|comparison
.so me.tni
.TH diff 3
.XI diff - "Difference files or directories" command|shell
.XI diff-changes - "Find the differences from a previous edit session" command|shell
.XI %diff-com 5 "Diff command line" variable
.SH NAME
diff \- Difference files or directories
.br
diff-changes \- Find the differences from a previous edit session
.br
%diff-com \- Diff command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|diff"
.B diff
"\fIoldFile\fR"
"\fInewFile\fR"
.br
.Me "|diff-changes"
.B diff-changes
.br
.Me "|%diff-com"
\fC%diff-com\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fCdiff\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B diff
executes the
.Hr diff 1
command with the command line set by the
.Ht %diff-com 5
variable and the user supplied  \fIoldFile\fR and \fInewFile\fR.
The output of the command is piped into the \fB*diff*\fR buffer
and is hilighted to show the changes (GNU diff only).
.PP
Your version of 
.Hr diff 1 
will determine whether it is possible to difference directories.
.PP
.B diff-changes
is a simple macro that  differences  the current buffer and the last backup of
the  associated  file. It is a quick way to determine  what has been  modified
recently. This macro only works if a backup file exists.
.PP
.B %diff-com
is the command line that is used to execute a 
.Hr diff 1 
system command. 
.PP 
For GNU diff then the following command line setting is recommended:-
.CS
diff --context --minimal --ignore-space-change \\
    --report-identical-files --recursive
.CE
which  should be  defined in your  personal  user  configuration.  This is the
default for Linux.
.SH NOTES
\fBdiff\fR and \fBdif-changes\fR are macros defined in \fCtools.emf\fR.
.PP
.Hr diff 1 
must be executable on the system before diff or diff-changes can function.
.PP
.Hr diff 1
is a standard utility on UNIX systems. For Windows 95/NT a version of GNU
.B diff 
may be found at:
.IP
.I "<ftp.winsite.com/ftp/pub/pc/winnt/misc/gnudiff.zip>"
.LP
For MS-DOS  users, a DJGPP port of \fBdiff\fR is also  available on the net. A
commercial version of \fBdiff\fR is also available from MKS.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht compare-windows 2 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht gdiff 3 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht %grep-com 5 .
.ad
.FH
