.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sun Feb 6 18:14:27 2005
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd018.3,v 2.5 2024/10/13 17:14:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd;command|shell
.so me.tni
.TH shell-tool-setup 3
.XI shell-tool-setup - "Define shell tools"
.SH NAME
shell-tool-setup \- Define shell tools
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B shell-tool-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBshell-tool-setup\fR  dialog  allows the user to  configure  up to 10 system  commands,  or tools, which can be
executed via \*(mS Main Advanced Menu. The dialog configures the user's registry for the command
.Ht execute-tool 3
to be used. The execution of a tool can also be bound to a key, see \fBexecute-tool\fR for more information.
.PP
The top half of the dialog consists of the 10 Tools  (\fC0\fR-\fC9\fR)  configuration  buttons. Selecting one of these
selects the current tool to be configured, the current tool is shown by the title in the middle of the dialog.
.PP
The lower half of the dialog configures the currently selected tool, as follows:-
.IP "\fCTool Name\fR"
Sets the  displayed  name of the tool. The tool name is used in the  buttons in the top half of this dialog and in the
\*(mS Main Tools Menu.
.IP "\fCCommand Line\fR"
Sets the system command-line to be launched whenever the tool is executed, the following special tokens may be used in
the command-line which are substituted at execution:-
.RS
.IP "\fB%ff\fR"
The current  buffer's full file name, including the path.
.IP "\fB%fp\fR"
The current  buffer's file path.
.IP "\fB%fn\fR"
The current  buffer's file name without the path.
.IP "\fB%fb\fR"
The current  buffer's  file base name, i.e. the file name  without the path or
the  extension.
.IP "\fB%fe\fR"
The current buffer's file extension with the '\fI.\fR' (e.g.  "\fI.emf\fR"),  set to the empty string if the file name
does not have an extension.
.RE
.IP
Note that "\fB%ff\fR" is always the same as "\fB%fp%fn\fR" and "\fB%fp%fb%fe\fR". If any of these tokens are used, the
tool will fail to execute if the current buffer does not have a file name.
.IP "\fCRun Concurrently\fR"
If enabled,  when the tool is executed  the command is launched  and run  concurrently,  allowing the user to continue
working in \*(mS during the tools  execution.  This option is not  available  for all versions on \*(mS and forces the
output to be captured. Enabling this option will force the use of command
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
to launch the tool.
.IP "\fCReread Current Buffer\fR"
When enabled the current buffer is reloaded when the command completes, this option is only available when
\fBRun Concurrently\fR is disabled.
.IP "\fCCapture Output\fR"
If enabled any output  produced  from the  execution of the tool will be captured and inserted into a new buffer. When
enabled the following two items,  \fCBuffer\fR  and  \fCHide\fR,  may be specified.  When disabled the command used to
execute the tool is
.Ht shell-command 2 ,
otherwise the command used is either
.Ht pipe-shell-command 2
or
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
depending on the setting of \fCRun Concurrently\fR.
.IP "\fCBuffer\fR"
Specifies  the buffer  name the  captured  output  should be dumped to, this option is only  visible  when
\fCCapture Output\fR is enabled. The following special tokens may be used in the buffer name which are substituted at execution:-
.RS
.IP "\fB%fn\fR"
The current  buffer's  file name  without the path, set to the buffer name if the current  buffer does not have a file
name.
.IP "\fB%fb\fR"
The current  buffer's file base name, i.e. the file name without the path or the  extension. Set to the buffer name if
the current buffer does not have a file name.
.IP "\fB%fe\fR"
The current  buffer's file  extension with the '\fI.\fR' (e.g.  "\fI.emf\fR"),  set to the empty string if the current
buffer does not have a file name or it does not have an extension.
.RE
Note that  "\fB%fn\fR"  is always the same as  "\fB%fb%fe\fR".  Default  buffer  name when this field is left empty is
"\fI*command*\fR", or "\fI*icommand*\fR" if \fCRun Concurrently\fR is enabled.
.IP "\fCHide\fR"
When  enabled the tool output  capture  buffer is hidden,  this option is only
visible when \fCCapture Output\fR is enabled.
.IP "Current Buffer - \fCSave\fR and \fCPrompt Before Saving\fR"
If the current buffer has been edited, enabling \fCSave Current Buffer\fR will  automatically  save the current buffer
before  executing  the tool. This is  particularly  useful when the tool  operates on the current  buffer's file (e.g.
compiles the file). If \fCPrompt\fR is also enabled the user will be prompted before the file is saved.
.IP "All Buffers - \fCSave\fR and \fCPrompt Before Saving\fR"
If \fCSave All Buffers\fR is enabled, all edited buffers will be  automatically  saved before executing the tool. This
is particularly useful when the tool may operate on multiple files (e.g. compilation of a project). If \fCPrompt\fR is
also enabled the user will be prompted before each file is saved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht execute-tool 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Hl "Top Main Menu" MainMenu 3 .
.ad
.FH
