.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Sat Aug 22 09:00:06 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd000.3,v 2.23 2025/03/30 12:03:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH user-setup 3
.XI user-setup - "Configure \*(mS for a specific user"
.SH NAME
user-setup \- Configure \*(mS for a specific user
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B user-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBuser-setup\fR  provides a dialog  interface to enable the user to configure
the editor.  \fBuser-setup\fR  may be invoked from the main \fIHelp\fR menu or
directly from the command line using
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.B user-setup
configures the user's setup registry file,  "\fI<logname>\fR\fC.erf\fR"  which
is used by \*(mS to initialize the environment to a user's preference.
.PP
Note, if your screen is too small to display the whole dialog, it may be moved
using  any key bound to the  scroll  commands  such as  \fBscroll-up\fR,  e.g.
\fCA-up\fR, \fCC-z\fR,  \fCA-down\fR, \fCC-v\fR, \fCA-left\fR etc. For systems
without mouse support, the \fCtab\fR key may be used to move between fields.
.PP
On all pages the  following  buttons are available at the bottom of the dialog
and have the following effect:
.IP "\fCSave\fR"
Saves    the    changes    made   to   the   users    registry    file,   i.e.
"\fI<Log-Name>\fR\fC.erf\fR"  but does not re-initialize  \*(mS. Some changes,
such as color scheme changes, only take effect when the  \fBCurrent\fR  button
is used or when \*(mS is restarted.
.IP "\fCCurrent\fR"
Makes the current  user and the changes  made  Current to this \*(mS  session,
dismissing the  \fBuser-setup\fR  dialog and  reinitializing  \*(mS. This also
saves the  registry  file out!
.IP "\fCCancel\fR"
Quits \fBuser-setup\fR, if changes where not \fBSave\fRd or made \fBCurrent\fR
they will be lost.
.PP
The following pages, which appear in the dialog, are defined as follows:-
.SS "Start-up"
.IP "\fCUser Name\fR"
Documents  the user name  currently  being  configured,  this entry  cannot be
changed in user-setup, see
.Ht $user-name 5
for help on changing the \*(mS user name.
.IP "\fCUser Path\fR"
Documents the location of the current user's \*(mS setup files, this entry  cannot be
changed in user-setup, see
.Ht $user-path 5
for help on changing the user path.
.IP "\fCSetup File\fR"
Sets the personal  user setup macro file name which is executed at start-up. A
user macro file should  contain all  personal  settings  such as preferred  key
bindings etc. See
.Hl "Setting Up A User Profile" UserProfiles 2
for more  information. The \fBEdit\fR check box can be used to  enable/disable
the  automatic   loading  of  the  setup  file  ready  for  editing  when  the
\fBCurrent\fR button is used.
.IP "\fCCompany File\fR"
Sets the company setup macro file name which is executed at start-up. A company macro file should contain all company
wide standard settings such as \fC%company-name\fR, \fC%company-url\fR and \fC%company-license\fR. The value given 
should not include the \fC.emf\fR extension. The value can be a space separated list of company file names, in which case only the 
first file is executed on start-up, unless the first name is just "\fC-\fR" which no file is executed, see
.Ht change-company 3 ,
.Ht insert-template 3
and
.Hl "Setting Up a Company Profile" CompanyProfiles 2
for more information.
.IP "\fCEmulation\fR"
Sets an emulation mode which changes the behaviour on \*(mS to emulate another
editor/program;  this  is  done by  executing  a macro  file at  start-up.  An
emulation  macro file should  contain the macro code  required to simulate the
environment of the other editor. \*(mE is released with four emulation  modes,
GNU Emacs (see macro file  \fCmeemacs.emf\fR), CUA (Windows style key bindings
and interface, see \fCmecua.emf\fR),  MicroEmacs v3.8  (\fCmeme3_8.emf\fR) and
NEdit  v5 which is at best a  demonstration  of what can be  achieved  via the
emulation support (defined in \fCmenedit.emf\fR). See
.Hl Compatibility Compatibility 2
for more  information on emulation.
.IP "\fCRebind Home Keys\fR"
When  enabled the  following  key  bindings  are created to ease  frustration,
particularly for MS users:
.RS
.IP "\fChome\fR"
Bound to beginning-of-line instead of beginning-of-buffer.
.IP "\fCend\fR"
Bound to end-of-line instead of end-of-buffer.
.IP "\fCC-home\fR"
Bound to beginning-of-buffer.
.IP "\fCC-end\fR"
Bound to end-of-buffer.
.RE
.IP "\fCMS Shift Region\fR"
Enables/disables  cursor  key  manipulation  with the  shift  key  similar  to
the conventional Microsoft region selection. When enabled,
pressing the shift key in  conjunction  with the cursor  movement keys selects
a region which is hilighted. Once the region is selected then the
\fC<DELETE>\fR or \fC<BACKSPACE>\fR  key erases the selected region. This also
enables a similar  behaviour  with the Mouse  \fBDrag  region\fR  driver,  see
below.
.IP "\fCC-# to Favorites\fR"
When enabled, \fCC-0\fR opens the favorites menu and \fCC-1\fR to \fCC-9\fR opens favorite file with the hotkey of 
given number. \fCC-c 0\fR adds the current file to the end to the favorite file list, \fCC-c 1\fR to \fCC-c 9\fR
adds the current file as a favorite file with the given number as a hotkey, replacing the previous file if it exists.
See \fBFavorites\fR within the File menu section of the
.Hl "main menu" MainMenu 3
for more information on favorites.
.SS "Locale Setup"
.IP "\fCKeyboard\fR"
Configures  \*(mS to the user's  keyboard.  Accent  character  generation keys
present on foreign  keyboards  cannot be  automatically  supported  on Windows
platforms.  \*(mS must be  informed of the  keyboard  being used to  correctly
interpret the keys. If a required keyboard is not supported please see
.Hl FAQ38 faq38 0f
on how to setup the keyboard, also see
.Hl "Locale Support" localeSupport 2 .
.IP "\fCLanguage\fR"
Sets the user  language,  this  sets the word (or  letter)  characters  and if
available sets up
.Ht spell 2
with  appropriate  spelling rules and  dictionaries.  For more  information on
adding support for a language see
.Hl "Locale Support" localeSupport 2 .
.IP \fBNOTES\fR
Earlier versions \*(mS had "\fC(Ext)\fR"  languages which use extended  language  dictionaries,  vastly increasing the
word  list. New  versions  automatically  test for and use  these  dictionaries  if  available.  More  recently  these
dictionaries have been merged into the main dictionary.
.IP
In earlier  versions a personal  dictionary  name could be set in the next field, this option was removed on Oct 2001.
Instead a personal  dictionary for each language is automatically  created for you, any words or auto-corrected  words
will   be   added   to   the   current    language's    personal    dictionary.    The   name   of    dictionary    is
"\fClsp\fR\fI<lang-id>\fR\fC.edf\fR"  where  "\fI<lang-id>\fR"  is the 4 letter \*(mS language name (e.g. "\fCenus\fR"
for American), simply rename any existing personal dictionary to this new name.
.IP "\fCAuto Save Dictionaries\fR"
Enables  auto-saving of any changed  dictionaries on exit. If this is disabled
the user is prompted to save for each changed dictionary.
.IP "\fCEnable Auto-Spell\fR"
Enables Auto Spell Checking in file types which support this feature  (usually
text based files such as
.Ht txt 9
or
.Ht nroff 9
files etc). Auto spell detects word breaks as you type and checks the spelling
of every  completed  word  hilighting  any erroneous  words in the error color
scheme  (usually  red).  When  auto-spell  is  enable,  right  clicking  on an
erroneous  word will add an extra  \fBAuto  Spell\fR  sub-menu  to the  opened
context  menu, the  sub-menu  lists  suggested  corrections  and other  useful
options; this menu can also be opened by executing the
.Ht auto-spell-menu 3
command (usually bound to  "\fCC-f7\fR").  The feature can be manually enabled
and disabled by invoking the
.Ht auto-spell 3
command.
.SS "General"
.IP "\fCFull Name\fR"
This should be set to the user's name and is used in a variety of places, e.g.
by
.Ht insert-template 3
to set the "Created By" field in a template.
.IP "\fCOrganizer File\fR"
Sets the organizer file base name, defaults to the \fBLog  Name\fR. When
notes and addresses are stored using
.Ht organizer 3
the file "\fI<Organizer>\fR\fC.eof\fR" is used.
.IP "\fCGlobal Modes\fR"
Sets the initial state of the global
.Ht quiet 5
global variable.
.IP "\fCSearch Modes\fR"
Sets the initial state of the global search modes
.Ht exact 2m
and
.Ht magic 2m .
This indirectly executes
.Ht global-mode 2
to set the required modes.
.IP "\fCBuffer Modes\fR"
Sets the initial state of the global modes
.Ht auto 2m ,
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht tab 2m
and
.Ht undo 2m ,
any  buffers  created  will  inherit  the state of these  modes.  However,  as
changing  these modes  directly  effects  only the global  modes, any existing
buffers  (including ones re-created using the \fC\-c\fR  command-line  option,
see
.Ht me 1 )
will not be effect by the setting of these modes. For them to take effect, the
buffers  should  be  reloaded.  These  modes can be changed on a per file type
basis using the command
.Ht buffer-setup 3 ,
also some file  hooks  override  these  global
settings, such as the
.Ht makefile 9
hook which overrides the \fBtab\fR mode. This indirectly executes
.Ht global-mode 2
to set the required modes.
.IP "\fCKeep Undo\fR"
If this is enabled the
.Hl undo undo 2
history is kept after a save allowing the
.Ht undo 2
command to back-up  changes  beyond the last save. When clear the undo history
is discarded after the buffer is saved. This indirectly sets bit 0x8000 of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCAuto-Save Time\fR"
Sets the length of time in seconds  between  buffer  auto-saves,  a setting of
\fC0\fR or an empty string  disables  auto-saving.  The default setting is 300
seconds or 5 minutes. This indirectly sets the
.Ht auto-time 5
variable and the
.Ht autosv 2m
global mode.
.IP "\fCHide Backups\fR"
Enables hiding \*(mS generated  backup files. On Windows and Dos platforms the
Hidden  file  attribute  is used to hide the file,  whereas on UNIX the backup
file name is prepended with a '\fC.\fR'. This  indirectly sets bit 0x100000 of
the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCMain Menu - Enable\fR"
Enables the top main menu bar.
.IP "\fCF-Type Buffer Sel\fR"
When  enabled  the main  \fBFile\fR  menu's  \fBBuffer\fR  selection  sub-menu
changes  from  being a  simple  complete  list of  buffers  to being a list of
\fBFile Types\fR (as defined by the \fBFile Types\fR section below). Selecting
one of these file types opens a further  sub-menu  listing all buffers of this
type; this  option is useful  when the  current  session  of \*(mS has a large
number of buffers.
.IP "\fCAlt Action - Esc Prfx\fR"
If enabled the Alt key acts as a
.Hl "prefix 1" prefix 2
modifier  key when no direct  binding  exists. By default  '\fCA-n\fR'  is not
bound, with this bit set the key is  inferred to '\fCesc  n\fR' which is bound
to \fBforward-paragraph\fR.  Note that global, local and menu hot-key bindings
override these. This indirectly sets bit 0x4000 of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCAlt Action - Main Menu Hot-keys\fR"
If enabled the main menu Alt hot-key  bindings are enabled.  These are dynamic
bindings automatically  generated from the main menu. Typically the first item
in the  main  menu is  "\fCFile\fR"  with a hot key of  '\fBF\fR',  with  this
enabled  '\fCA-f\fR'  will open this menu item. Note that global and local key
bindings override these. This indirectly sets bit 0x2000 of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCAbbrev Setup\fR"
Configures which abbreviation expansion methods are enabled by default when the
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
is executed. \fBAccent\fR enables
.Ht expand-iso-accents 3 ,
\fBLookback\fR enables
.Ht expand-look-back 3
and \fBDict'n\fR enables
.Ht expand-word 3 .
.IP "\fCTab To Indent\fR"
Sets the
.Ht tab 2
behavior in a buffer which has an
.Hl indentation indent 2
method. This indirectly sets bits \fC0x1000\fR and \fC0x200000\fR of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCShow Modes\fR"
Selects which modes are to be displayed on the mode-line whenever a "\fC%e\fR"
token is used in the
.Ht $mode-line 5
variable. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $show-modes 5
variable.
.SS "Platform - UNIX XTerm Setup"
Only present on UNIX platforms using the X interface, see below for the Console setup.
.IP "\fCFont\fR"
Sets the X font name to be used. This indirectly executes
.Ht change-font 2
with the given font name. e.g.
.IP
\fC"-*-fixed-medium-r-normal--15-*-*-*-c-90-*"\fR
.IP "\fCDisplay Char Set\fR"
Selects the display character set being used by the system to render the \*(mS
window,  dependent  on the  \fBFont\fR  being used. The setting of this option
effects the configuration of \*(mS's internal character maps (using command
.Ht set-char-mask 2 )
enabling the character sets of foreign languages to be correctly supported. It
also changes the definition of variables
.Ht $box-chars 5
and
.Ht $window-chars 5
to their best values for the given font.
.IP "\fCExtend Char Set\fR"
When enabled \*(mS replaces the display of characters \fC0x00\fR to \fC0x1f\fR
with forms which are useful for  variables
.Ht $box-chars 5
and
.Ht $window-chars 5
greatly improving the look of
.Ht osd 2
dialogs, the scroll bars etc.
.IP "\fCUse Fonts\fR"
When enabled the bold, italic, light and underline characteristics of the font
will be used depending on their  availability and the Color Scheme being used.
This indirectly sets bit \fC0x10\fR of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCDraw White Spaces\fR"
Enables the drawing of visible white  spaces, i.e. space, tab and new-line
characters. This indirectly sets bit
\fC0x80000\fR of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCChoose Font\fR"
Runs XTerm command
.Hr xfontsel 1 
which opens a dialog  allowing the user to select a font, the current font name is passed back to \*(mS if the  \fBquit\fR
button is press, the font name is not altered if \fBxfontsel\fR is exited using the title bar close button.
.IP "\fCEnable Toolbar\fR"
Enables the Toolbar - configurable, managed windows giving easy access to many
features  and tools.  When  enabled  the  toolbar is opened and  displayed  at
start-up,  when disabled the toolbar is not displayed but it can be opened (or
closed) by simply executing the
.Ht  toolbar 3
command.
.IP "\fCClient Server\fR"
The  client/server  enables the file based external macro command driver to be
enabled - see
.Hl Client-Server Client-Server 2 .
This by default is disabled, when enabled it is used by
.Hl command-line me 1
options  \fB-m\fR  and  \fB-o\fR.
.IP "\fCDOS File Names\fR"
DOS has a restricted  8.3 file naming system (i.e.  "\fCBBBBBBBB.XXX\fR"),  if
this option is enabled the \*(mE will adhere to this system for  auto-save and
backup file names whenever possible. See
.Ht $auto-time 5
for more  information on the naming  convention used. This indirectly sets bit
0x400 of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fC# Backups\fR"
This option only has an effect when \fBDOS File Names\fR is disabled.  Setting
this to a  number  greater  than  zero  enables  multiple  backup  files to be
created,  the number  determined  by this value. If set to zero (or less) then
only a single backup file is created. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $kept-versions 5
variable.
.IP "\fCIgnore Files\fR"
Sets a list  extensions of files to be ignored in file  completion, e.g. \*(mS
backup files (\fC~\fR). This indirectly sets the
.Ht $file-ignore 5
variable.
.IP "\fCSystem Clipboard\fR"
Sets the required  interaction with the external system clipboard; this sets bits \fB0x800000\fR,  \fB0x4000000\fR and
\fB0x8000000\fR of the 
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCCursor Blink Rate\fR"
Sets the cursor  blink  period in  millisecond.  The first  entry box sets the
cursor visible time, a setting of zero disables  blinking. The second box sets
the  hidden  time. A  visible  time  of 600  and  hidden  time of 200  gives a
reasonable blink cycle. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $cursor-blink 5
variable.
.IP "\fCFence Display\fR"
Sets the  preferred  method of displaying a matching  fence, a fence is one of
the following brackets:
.CS
{...}   (...)   [...]
.CE 0
.IP
Jumping to the  opening  fence only  occurs  when the closing  brace is typed,
whereas the drawing of matching  fences  occurs  whenever  the cursor is on an
open fence or one  character  past the close fence. When this option is set to
"\fCNever Display\fR" the
.Ht buffer-setup 3
setting is ignored.
.IP "\fCScroll Bars\fR"
Selects the scroll bar support  required.  When Splitter is enabled, the first
character  of the  scroll  bar and  mode-line  is a split  character  used for
splitting the window into two using the mouse. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $scroll-bar 5
variable.
.IP "\fCHorizontal Scroll\fR"
Selects the horizontal scrolling method used with the
.Ht scroll-left 2
and
.Ht scroll-right 2
commands. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $scroll 5
variable.
.IP "\fCVertical Scroll\fR"
Selects the vertical scrolling method used with the
.Ht forward-line 2
and
.Ht backward-line 2
commands. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $scroll 5
variable.
.IP "\fCColor Scheme\fR"
Sets the color  scheme  setup  macro file name which is executed at  start-up.
\*(mS by default  comes with 4 color  schemes.  Color  schemes  can be created
and altered using the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
dialog.
.SS "Platform - UNIX Console Setup"
Only  present on UNIX  platforms  when using the  termcap  interface,  all the
Console platform settings are kept independent of the X interface settings.
.IP "\fCDisplay Char Set\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCUTF-8 encode term I/O\fR"
Enable this option if your terminal is using UTF-8 encoding. This can usually be determined by disabling the option 
then executing
.Ht insert-symbol 3 ,
if many of the characters in the second half of the table are drawn as a question mark within a diamond (\fC<?>\fR) 
the terminal is using UTF-8 encoding and the option should be enabled.
.IP "\fCExtend Char Set\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above, only supported when UTF-8 encoding is enabled. When enabled \*(mS uses specific 
Unicode characters, typically not available in the current charset, to render the characters \fC0x00\fR to \fC0x1f\fR
to improve the visual rendering of the
.Ht $box-chars 5
and
.Ht $window-chars 5
characters used for drawing the dialogs and menus.
.IP "\fCTermcap Color\fR"
This option determines  whether Termcap based colors should be used. These are
typically the standard eight colors and may not be supported on all terminals.
If this option is disabled  Termcap  fonts (such as bold) are used  instead to
create a primitive hi-lighting. This indirectly sets bit 0x004 of the
.Ht $system 5
variable.
.IP "\fCUse Fonts\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCDraw White Spaces\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCEnable Toolbar\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCClient Server\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCDOS File Names\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fC# Backups\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCIgnore Files\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCCursor Blink Rate\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCFence Display\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCScroll Bars\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCHorizontal Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCVertical Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCColor Scheme\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.SS "Platform - Windows Window Setup"
Only present on Microsoft Windows window-based machines, see below for the Console setup.
.IP "\fCFont Name\fR"
Sets the windows font name and size. This indirectly executes
.Ht change-font 2
with the given font name.
MicroEmacs may only use a Fixed Mono Font, either an OEM font as used by the
MS-DOS command line, or the more conventional ANSI fonts. The fonts are
selected using the
\fBChange\fR \fBFont\fR button which invokes a dialog to allow the available
fonts to be selected. True-Type mono fonts such as \fCCourier New\fR or
\fCLucida Console\fR are
typically used.
.IP "\fCWeight & Size\fR"
Allows  the  size  and  weight  of  the  font  to be  selected,  specified  as
\fIweight\fR,  \fIwidth\fR and  \fIheight\fR. The \fIweight\fR is typically 4,
this  corresponds to a regular  weighting, 7 is bold. \fIwidth\fR is the width
of the font in pixels, this may be 0 when the height is specified as negative.
\fIheight\fR  is the height of the font, typically a negative value (where the
\fIwidth\fR  is 0), which produces a  proportionally  sized font, values of in
the range -11 .. -14 generally produce reasonably sized fonts. The \fIhight\fR
and  \fIwidth\fR  may be specified as positive  values and allow explicit font
dimensions  to be  specified,  generally  used to achieve a precise  font size
requirement.
.IP "\fCFonts\fR"
See \fCUse Fonts\fR in \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCDisplay Char Set\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCExtend Char Set\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCChoose Font\fR"
Opens a windows  dialog  allowing the user to select a font, the  selection is
used to configure the above font fields.
.IP "\fCDraw White Spaces\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCCapture Alt Space\fR"
Used to enable/disable  the capture and  interpretation of the '\fCA-space\fR'
key  sequence. If this key sequence is not captured by \*(mS it is passed back
to Windows  which  opens the top left window  menu, allow  keyboard  access to
Window commands like Maximize.
.IP "\fCEnable Toolbar\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCClient Server\fR"
See  \fBPlatform  UNIX Setup\fR  above.
.IP "\fCDOS File Names\fR"
See  \fBPlatform  UNIX Setup\fR above. Note that some early version of Windows
\'95 have  problems  with \fC~\fR  extensions.  Service  release 2 fixed these
problems - if you experience  problems then return to 8.3 filename mode - note
that  MicroEmacs  will still store longer file names, only the backup  naming
convention changes.
.IP "\fC# Backups\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCIgnore Files\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCCursor Blink Rate\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCFence Display\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCScroll Bars\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCHorizontal Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCVertical Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCColor Scheme\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.SS "Platform - Win32 Console Setup"
Only  present on Windows  platforms  when using the console  interface,  all the Console  platform  settings  are kept
independent of the Window interface settings.
.IP "\fCDisplay Char Set\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCDraw White Spaces\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCEnable Toolbar\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCClient Server\fR"
See \fBPlatform Win32 Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCDOS File Names\fR"
See \fBPlatform Win32 Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fC# Backups\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCIgnore Files\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCCursor Blink Rate\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCFence Display\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCScroll Bars\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCHorizontal Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCVertical Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCColor Scheme\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.SS "Platform - DOS Setup"
Only present on DOS machines.
.IP "\fCGraphic Mode #\fR and \fCDouble Lines\fR"
Sets the DOS graphics  mode number and whether the number of text lines can be
doubled. This indirectly executes
.Ht change-font 2
with the given font name.
.IP "\fCDisplay Char Set\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCDouble Lines\fR"
In some  graphic  modes  the  number of text  lines can be  doubled  via a dos
terminal  call, this  option is worth  trying if more  visible  text lines are
required.
.IP "\fCDraw White Spaces\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCEnable Toolbar\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCIgnore Files\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCCursor Blink Rate\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCFence Display\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCScroll Bars\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCHorizontal Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCVertical Scroll\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.IP "\fCColor Scheme\fR"
See \fBPlatform UNIX Setup\fR above.
.SS "Mouse"
The mouse device  creates keys in a similar way to regular  keyboard keys and,
like  keyboard  keysm they must be bound  before they are used. \*(mE does not
have the mouse  functionality  hard coded into the editor, it provides a macro
interface  to  the  mouse  for  ultimate  flexibility  and  a set  of  default
functionality which can be bound to the mouse in a variety of ways.
.PP
All the mouse controlling macros are stored in
\fCmouse.emf\fR  and  \fCmouseosd.emf\fR  although  some  buffers  have  local
functionality over-rides, such as
.Ht file-browser 3 .
The user can expand the range of mouse  functionality but how this is achieved
is beyond the scope of this documentation.
.PP
The \fBuser-setup\fR  dialog allows the user to configure the mouse to use the
default functionality, as follows:-
.IP "\fCEnable Mouse\fR"
Enables or  disables  the mouse, when  disabled  the mouse can not be used and
will not generate any key events. This does not apply to  \s-1UNIX\s0  Termcap
systems as the mouse cut and paste  operation  is performed by the Xterm. This
indirectly sets bit 0x010 of the
.Ht $mouse 5
variable.
.IP "\fCNumber Buttons\fR"
Sets the  number of  buttons  on the  mouse,  may be 1, 2 or 3. \*(mS  usually
obtains the correct  number for the system, but  sometimes  this can be wrong.
This  entry can be used to  correct  this  problem.  For one button  mice, the
button is considered to be the  \fCleft\fR  mouse button, two button mice have
an \fCleft\fR and \fCright\fR button. This indirectly sets the
.Ht $mouse 5
variable.
.IP "\fCSwap Buttons\fR"
If enabled then the \fCleft\fR and \fCright\fR  buttons are swapped, i.e. when
the left  button is  pressed  it  executes  the right  button  bindings.  This
indirectly sets bit 0x020 of the
.Ht $mouse 5
variable.
.IP "\fCSimulate 3 Buttons\fR"
If enabled then pressing the \fCleft\fR and \fCright\fR  buttons together with
generate a middle  button  press  event, this  feature is for people  with a 2
button  mouse who want more. The two buttons must be pressed or release within
10 millisecond of each other.
.PP
The following four fields determine which mouse button binding the user wishes
to view and change:-
.IP "\fCButton\fR"
The mouse  button,  \fCLeft\fR,  \fCRight\fR  or  \fCMiddle\fR  for the normal
buttons and \fCWhell Up\fR or \fCWhell Down\fR for the pilot wheel events.
.IP "\fCModifier - Shift\fR"
The action of the mouse can be  different  for every  modifier key setting, if
this is enabled then the binding being modified is for the \fBButton\fR  being
pressed with the \fBShift\fR key held down.
.IP "\fCModifier - Control\fR"
If enabled then modifying the action when the \fBButton\fR is pressed with the
\fBControl\fR key held down.
.IP "\fCModifier - Alt\fR"
If enabled then modifying the action when the \fBButton\fR is pressed with the
\fBAlt\fR key held down.
.PP
The following two fields determine the  functionality of the button defined by
the previous four fields:-
.IP "\fCBound To\fR"
The function to be performed.  The functions  available  depend on the type of
button being bound, the following is a list of functions  available for normal
buttons:-
.RS
.IP "\fC<not bound>\fR"
The Button is not bound.
.IP "\fCDrag region\fR"
.Ht set-mark 2
is called at the pick location,  until the button is dropped, the area of text
between  this point and the current  mouse  position is  hi-lighted.  When the
mouse button is dropped, if the drop position is the same as the pick then the
double  click is tested for, if a double  click is entered then the
\fBSelect  Word\fR function is executed,  otherwise the cursor is simply moved
to the drop  position. If the pick and drop  position are  different  then the
enclosed text is copied to the kill buffer using
.Ht copy-region 2 .
Note this behaviour is altered by the setting of
.B "MS Shift Region"
on the \fBStart-Up\fR page.
.IP "\fCCopy Rectangle\fR"
One corner of a rectangle is defined on the pick and the  diagonally  opposite
corner is defined  when the button is dropped,  the text  enclosed  within the
rectangle is copied to the kill buffer using
.Ht copy-rectangle 3 .
.IP "\fCKill Rectangle\fR"
The same as \fCCopy Rectangle\fR except the text is killed using
.Ht kill-rectangle 2 .
.IP "\fCSelect Word\fR"
Also executed from a double click bound to \fBDrag Region\fR,
\fBSelect Word\fR copies the word under the mouse into the kill buffer using
.Ht copy-region 2 ,
unless a double click is entered in which case the whole line is copied.
.IP "\fCDefault Pan\fR"
While the mouse  button is  pressed  the  current  buffer  pans with any mouse
movement.
.IP "\fCMS Pan\fR"
MicroSoft style Pan; while the mouse  button is  pressed  the  current  buffer
pans  vertically  according to the mouse position  relative to the point where
the button was pressed.
.IP "\fCFind Buffer\fR"
Opens a buffer  selection  dialog, the buffer  selected  is  displayed  in the
window.
.IP "\fCFind Tag\fR"
Executes
.Ht find-tag 2
with the word currently under the mouse.
.IP "\fCFind ME Help\fR"
Executes
.Ht help-item 2
with the word currently under the mouse.
.IP "\fCUndo\fR"
Simply executes
.Ht undo 2
without  moving the cursor to the position of the mouse.  Subsequent  calls to
this binding will undo multiple edits.
.IP "\fCNo Move Yank\fR"
Simply executes
.Ht yank 2
without moving the cursor to the position of the mouse.
.IP "\fCReplace Yank\fR"
Simplar to "\fCNo move yank\fR" except when the is a current region (typically
defined  by  "\fCDrag  region\fR"  above), in which  case the  region is first
deleted.
.IP "\fCMove to Yank\fR"
Moves the cursor to the current position of the mouse and executes
.Ht yank 2 .
.IP "\fCReyank\fR"
Executes
.Ht reyank 2
without  moving the cursor.  Note, to enable  this  functionality  some sanity
checks have had to be removed, as a result it should not be misused as seeming
bizarre things can occur.
.IP "\fCRectangle Yank\fR"
Moves the cursor to the current position of the mouse and executes
.Ht yank-rectangle 2 .
.IP "\fCCollapse Current\fR"
Toggles  the collapse  status of the  current  block, only  applicable  in buffers
supporting
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
such as c and emf files.
.IP "\fCCollapse All\fR"
Toggles the collapse  status of the whole buffer, opening or closing all found
blocks. Only applicable in buffers supporting
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
such as c and emf files.
.IP "\fCMain Menu\fR"
Simply opens the main menu from any where on the screen.
.IP "\fCContext Menu\fR"
Opens a context  sensitive  menu  dependent on the position of the mouse, i.e.
opens the main menu if over it, opens a  different  menu when  executed on the
mode-line etc.
.PP
The following is a list of functions  available for pilot wheel events:-
.IP "\fCNot bound\fR"
The Button is not bound.
.IP "\fCScroll Up 1 Line\fR ...."
Scrolls the current buffer by the specified amount.
.RE
.IP "\fCHandle Scroll Bars\fR"
When  enabled,  if the  button is  pressed  with the mouse on the main menu, a
scroll bar or mode-line the standard  action is performed, such as opening the
main menu or scrolling up or down the window etc. The \fBbound  To\fR  command
is only called if the mouse is in a main window. If disabled, the
\fBBound To\fR command is always called.
.IP "\fCDefaults\fR"
Rests the mouse configuration to the default settings.
.SS "Miscellaneous"
This tab gives easy access to setup dialogs of other features:
.IP "\fCAlias Path\fR"
Dialog to configure alias paths, for more information see
.Ht alias-path-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCClearCase\fR"
Dialog to configure the IBM ClearCase interface, for more information see
.Ht cc-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCCVS\fR"
Dialog to configure the Concurrent Versions System (CVS) interface, for more information see
.Ht cvs-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCFile Tools\fR"
Dialog to configure file tools which can be used in the file browser, for more information see
file-tool-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCFile Types\fR"
Dialog to configure file type list which is used in the
.Hl "main menu" MainMenu 3 's
\fBOpen\fR and \fBQuick Open\fR items, for more information see
file-type-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCFind\fR"
Dialog to configure the 
.Ht find 3 ,
.Ht grep 3
and
.Ht replace-string-in-files 3
commands, see
.Ht find-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCSession\fR"
Dialog to configure the current session, for more information see
.Ht session-setup 3 . 
.IP "\fCShell Tools\fR"
Dialog to  configure  the shell tools, these are an  alternative  to \fBFile  Tools\fR as they are  typically  used to
operate on the current buffer's file. For more information see
.Ht shell-tool-setup 3 . 
.IP "\fCSubversion\fR"
Dialog to configure the Subversion (SVN) interface, see
.Ht svn-setup 3 .
.SH NOTES
\fBuser-setup\fR is a macro using
.Ht osd 2 ,
defined in \fCuserstp.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "User Profiles" userProfiles 2 ,
.Hl "Company Profiles" companyProfiles 2 ,
.Hl "Installation" Installation 1 ,
.Hl "Top Main Menu" MainMenu 3 ,
.Ht buffer-setup 3 ,
.Ht change-company 3 ,
.Ht change-scheme 3 ,
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht alias-path-setup 3 ,
.Ht cc-setup 3 ,
.Ht cvs-setup 3 ,
.Ht find-setup 3 ,
.Ht shell-tool-setup 3 , 
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 .
.ad
.FH
