.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd007.3,v 2.6 2009/08/29 17:14:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|help
.so me.tni
.TH osd-help 3
.XI osd-help - "GUI based on-line help"
.SH NAME
osd-help \- GUI based on-line help
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B osd-help
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBosd-help\fR provides a GUI front end to the on-line help manual, the dialog
consists of 3 pages which are defined as follows:-
.SS Contents
The contents page displays a list on contents similar to the
.Ht help 2
high  level  help  page.  Selecting  an item will  display  the help page in a
buffer, selecting \fBExit\fR will exit the dialog.
.SS Index
The index page gives a list of help items, the \fBScope\fR menu can be used to
narrow the index list to the required item type.
.SS Search
The search  page  provides a way of  searching  the  on-line  help for a given
topic. Similarly to the Index page, the \fBScope\fR menu is provided to narrow
the search to the required  area.
.PP
The search  strings is considered to be made up of items  separated by spaces,
an item can be enclosed in quotes  ('\fC"\fR')  so that the item can include a
space. If the first  letter of an item is a  '\fC+\fR'  the given item must be
found in a page for it to match, if the character is a '\fC-\fR' the item must
NOT be  found  on a page  for it to  match,  or  other  items  are  considered
optional.  At least one item must be found on a page for it to be a match, the
numbers to the right of each found page is the number of items found.
.SH NOTES
See
.Hl "Help!" HelpOnHelp -
for help on the on-line help pages.
.PP
\fBosd-help\fR is a macro using
.Ht osd 2 ,
defined in osdhelp.emf.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht help 2 .
.ad
.FH
