.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sun Feb 6 18:14:27 2005
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd014.3,v 2.2 2006-08-13 12:53:07 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH buffer-setup 3
.XI buffer-setup - "Configure the current buffer settings"
.SH NAME
buffer-setup \- Configure the current buffer settings
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B buffer-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbuffer-setup\fR  provides a dialog  interface  for  configuring  the buffer
major mode,  indentation and buffer modes.  \fBbuffer-setup\fR  may be invoked
from the main \fITools\fR menu or directly from the command line using
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.PP
The  \fBbuffer-setup\fR   dialog  may  be  used  to  quickly  reconfigure  the
attributes of a given buffer. The settings are only  temporary and expire once
the buffer has been closed or re-loaded.
.Ht buffer-setup 3
should be used to associate  user  specific  settings  with  different  buffer
types.
.PP
The following controls are available:-
.IP "\fBMajor Mode\fR" 
Associates  a file type with the content of the file and is used to modify the
buffer  highlighting  and content  assisted  controls if the file type has not
been  recognized  correctly.  Changing  the major mode will cause the new file
type  template  to be loaded and may cause the buffer key  bindings to change.
The default major mode settings are set with 
.Ht major-mode-setup 3 .
.IP "\fBIndent Width\fR"
Defines  the  indent  width  to use when the  \s-1TAB\s0  key is  pressed,  or
following a nested construct in a auto-indent buffer. This entry modifies the
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5
setting. The default indentation width is defined by the variable
.Ht $indent-width 5 .
.IP "\fBTab Width\fR"
The width of a rendered \s-1TAB\s0  character in spaces,  modification of this
value  immediately  changes the layout.  This  modifies  the buffer  width tab
variable
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5
the  default  is 8 (defined by
.Ht $tab-width 5 ).
Where files have been edited with a non-standard  tab width then  modification
of this value (to  typically  2 or 4) may correct the  problem. To correct the
styling of the buffer to be editor independent then the command
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3
may be used to change all of the tab  characters  to spaces once the tab width
has been correctly set.
.IP "\fBFill Column\fR"
A text layout variable, defines the maximum length of the line before wrapping
occurs when a text  paragraph is filled. This  modifies the buffer fill column
variable 
.Ht $buffer-fill-col 5
the  default  is 78 (defined by
.Ht $fill-col 5 ).
.IP "\fBFill Mode\fR"
A text  layout  variable,  defines  how  paragraphs  should  be filled  across
multiple lines. This modifies the buffer fill mode variable 
.Ht $buffer-fill-mode 5
the default is \fBB\fR which causes automatic  detection of paragraph  layout,
defaulting to full  justification  against the left and right margins (defined
by
.Ht $fill-mode 5 ).
.IP "\fBUse Auto Indentation\fR"
Toggles  automatic  indentation on an off, this setting is only present if the
buffer type supports a
.Ht indent 2 
scheme. Typically used for files such as
.Hl lex l 9
and
.Hl yacc y 9
which use a special syntax combination with C.
.IP "\fBUse Hilighting\fR"
Toggles hilighting on and off, this setting is only present if the buffer type
supports a
.Ht hilight 2
scheme.
.IP "\fBBuffer Modes\fR"
The modes of the buffer, refer to 
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes -  
for more information. 
.IP
A notable mode switch here is 
.Ht tab 2m
which  changes the behavior of the \fCTAB\fR  key, when set tabs are simulated
with the insertion of spaces, when disabled literal tab characters are used.
.SH "HISTORY"
Prior  to  the  2006  release   \fBbuffer-setup\fR   was   previously   called
\fBindent-setup\fR  and dealt  with the  indentation  settings  only. The 2006
release introduced the concept of \fBMajor Mode\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-setup 3 ,
.Ht execute-named-command 2 ,
.Ht hilight 2 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht major-mode-setup 3 ,
.Ht osd 2 ,
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3
.Ht $buffer-fill-col 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-fill-mode 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5 ,
.Ht $fill-col 5 ,
.Ht $fill-mode 5 ,
.Ht $indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $tab-width 5 .
.sp
.Hl "Operating Modes" Modes - .
.ad
.FH
