.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd009.3,v 2.7 2026/03/24 01:36:14 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell|osd
.so me.tni
.TH describe-word 3
.XI describe-word - "Display a dictionary definition of a word"
.SH NAME
describe-word \- Display a dictionary definition of a word
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B describe-word
"\fIword\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B describe-word
can be used to interface to an external dictionary to get a definition of a given word. When executed
\fBdescribe-word\fR will use the current word under the cursor as the initial \fIword\fR or will prompt the user if
the cursor is not in a word.
.PP
The command provides four methods of interfacing with an external dictionary and each language can be configured to
use one or more dictionaries, allowing secondary sources to be used if the primary lookup failed. The first interface
simply launches an external program which provides the definition in its own user interface, e.g. GoldenDict or MS
Bookshelf. A lookup using this interface is always assumed to be successful so this should always be the last one for 
a language.
.PP
The second interface launches an external program which prints out the definition to \fCstdout\fR, \*(mS can then pull
out the definition and display it in a \fB*describe-word*\fR buffer.
.PP
The third interface requires a URL, such as http:// or dict://, which provides the definition when loaded, and a 
clean-up macro the turns the definition into a readable form.
.PP
The last interface requires a dictionary text file, a regex search string and a clean-up macro.  \fBdescribe-word\fR 
loads the dictionary file and searches for definitions of the given word, adding each one to the output buffer, it 
then calls the clean-up macro to format the definitions into a more readable form. 
.SH NOTES
\fBdescribe-word\fR is a macro implemented in \fCword.emf\fR.
.PP
Due to the size and availability of dictionaries etc. \*(mS is released with describe-word set up to use the most
appropriate dictionaries available at \fCdict://dict.org/\fR.
.PP
\fBdescribe-word\fR must be setup for each required language, which requires the setting of a 
\fB.describe-word.<lang-id>\fR variable. The variable must be a
.Hl "\*(mS list" &lset 4
of dictionary interface configurations, each one being a sub-list to configure the interface to a dictionary source, 
each sub-list must take one of four forms:
.IP \fBExternal\fR
To interface with an external program the sub-list has the following items:
.RS
.CS
|<flags>|<source-name>|<not-used>|<command-line>|
.CE
Where:
.IP \fB<flags>\fR
Is a list of option flags, one of which must be \fCx\fR to indicate an external source. Other flags supported by an 
external source are \fCi\fR to use an ipipe to launch, this is useful when needing to debug the interface,
and \fCs\fR for a single, or shared, output buffer which is only used when ipipe mode is also being used.
.IP \fB<source-name>\fR
Defines the name of the interface, or source, and is only used when ipipe mode is also being used.
.IP \fB<not-used>\fR
The 3rd item is not currently used and should be left empty.
.IP \fB<command-line>\fR
Defines the command-line required to launch the external dictionary program, the \fB<command-line>\fR should contain a
\fC%w\fR token which is replaced with the given word, the token will typically also require surrounding \fC%"\fR
tokens (i.e. \fC%"%w%"\fR) so that if the word contains a space it will be properly quoted in the generated
command-line.
.RE
.IP \fBCommand\fR
To interface with an external program which prints the definition out to \fCstdout\fR, the sub-list has the following items:
.RS
.CS
|<flags>|<source-name>|<clean-up-macro>|<command-line>|
.CE
Where:
.IP \fB<flags>\fR
Is a list of option flags, one of which must be \fCc\fR to indicate a command source. The only other flags currently 
supported by a command source is \fCs\fR for a single, or shared, output buffer, without this flag the buffer name 
includes the word being described.
.IP \fB<source-name>\fR
Defines the name of the interface, or source, and is used in the details given in the first line of the output buffer.
.IP \fB<clean-up-macro>\fR
The clean-up macro has two purposes, firstly if the macro aborts (i.e. calls
.Ht !abort 4
etc.) it signals to \fBdescribe-word\fR that the output does not actually contain a definition, for example the output 
may simply be "\fCNo definitions found for <word>\fR". The second purpose is to perform any clean-up and reformatting 
required to make the output more legible. \fBdescribe-word\fR provides a simple \fBdescribe-word-cmd\fR macro which 
simply aborts if the output contains one line with the line starting with "\fCNo definitions found for \fR".
.IP \fB<command-line>\fR
Defines the command-line required to launch the dictionary program, the \fB<command-line>\fR should contain a \fC%w\fR 
token which is replaced with the given word, the token will typically also require surrounding \fC%"\fR tokens (i.e. 
\fC%"%w%"\fR) so that if the word contains a space it will be properly quoted in the generated command-line.
.RE
.IP \fBURL\fR
To interface with an online dictionary source, the sub-list has the following items:
.RS
.CS
|<flags>|<source-name>|<clean-up-macro>|<url>|
.CE
Where:
.IP \fB<flags>\fR
Is a list of option flags, one of which must be \fCu\fR to indicate a URL source. The only other flags currently 
supported by a URL source is \fCs\fR for a single, or shared, output buffer, without this flag the buffer name 
includes the word being described.
.IP \fB<source-name>\fR
Defines the name of the interface, or source, and is used in the details given in the first line of the output buffer.
.IP \fB<clean-up-macro>\fR
The clean-up macro has two purposes, firstly if the macro aborts (i.e. calls
.Ht !abort 4
etc.) it signals to \fBdescribe-word\fR that the output does not actually contain a definition, for example the output 
may simply be a network error. The second purpose is to perform any clean-up and reformatting 
required to make the output more legible. \fBdescribe-word\fR provides a \fBdescribe-word-dct\fR macro for 
\fCdict://\fR URLs which aborts if the output contains less than three lines. It also reformats the output to improve 
the output in \*(mS.
.IP \fB<url>\fR
Defines the URL required to get a definition, the \fB<url>\fR should contain either a \fC%w\fR 
token, which is replaced with the given word in plain text, or \fC%e\fR which is replaced with the given word 
URL-encoded (also known as percent encoded).
.RE
.IP \fBFile\fR
To interface with a dictionary text file, the sub-list has the following items:
.RS
.CS
|<flags>|<source-name>|<clean-up-macro>|<regex-search>|<dict-file>|
.CE
Where:
.IP \fB<flags>\fR
Is a list of option flags, one of which must be \fCf\fR to indicate a file source. Other flags currently supported by
a file source are \fCk\fR to keep the dictionary file loaded (improves performance at a cost of increased memory
usage), \fCm\fR to indication that the dictionary may contain multiple definitions of the same word, and \fCs\fR for a
single, or shared, output buffer, without this flag the buffer name includes the word being described.
.IP \fB<source-name>\fR
Defines the name of the interface, or source, and is used in the details given in the first line of the output buffer.
.IP \fB<clean-up-macro>\fR
The clean-up macro has two purposes, firstly if the macro aborts (i.e. calls
.Ht !abort 4
etc.) it signals to \fBdescribe-word\fR that the output does not actually contain a definition. The second purpose is to perform any clean-up and reformatting 
required to make the output more legible. \fBdescribe-word\fR provides a \fBdescribe-word-sln\fR macro which 
attempts to convert a single line of definition text into a better laid out set of definitions.
.IP \fB<regex-search>\fR
Defines the regex search string required to find the definition of a given word, it must contain a \fC%r\fR 
token which is replaced with the given word (but regex encoded, i.e. '.' to '\\.' etc) and at least on group, the 
first of which must fully contain the definition.
.IP \fB<dict-file>\fR
The file name of the dictionary, this can be an absolute file name or given without the path if the file is located in 
a directory in the \*(mS
.Ht $search-path 5 .
.RE
.\"TODO Need to update examples
\fBNote:\fR the following examples need updating.
.PP 
Similar to \fBExternal\fR, a  command-line  interface to a dictionary  of the required  language  must be
found. This could simply be a text file  containing  one word  definition  per
line and using
.Hr grep 1
as the  command-line  interface.  In this example the text file could take the
following form:
.RS
.CS
A () The first letter of the English...
Aam (n.) A Dutch and German measure of liquids...
Aardvark (n.) An edentate mammal...
\&.
\&.
.CE
The   \fBgrep\fR   command-line   interface   required  to  look-up  the  word
"\fCaardvark\fR" would be:
.CS
grep -i "^aardvark (" words.txt
.CE
The output  produced  from this will be the single  line  giving the  required
definition.  A  second  common   interface  would  be  executing  an  external
dictionary  program typically using a command-line  option to specify the word
to define, e.g.:
.CS
mydict -d "aardvark"
.CE 0
.RE
.IP \fB2)\fR
The \*(mS language name must be found, this can be done by first using
.Ht user-setup 3
or
.Ht spell-buffer 3
to  ensure  that the  current  language  is set the the  require  one and then
running  \fBdescribe-word\fR.  The command will  probably  fail, but before it
does it will set the variable \fC.describe-word.lang\fR, use the command
.Ht describe-variable 2
to get the value of this  variable, this value is the internal  language name.
For example, when the current language is \fBAmerican\fR or
\fBAmerican  (Ext)\fR the language name is \fCamerican\fR.
.IP \fB3)\fR
To     execute     the      command-line      interface      the      variable
\fC.describe-word.\fR\fI<language>\fR\fC-command\fR   must   be   set  to  the
command-line  required to obtain a word definition with the string  "\fC%s\fR"
used in place of the word and "\fC%%\fR" using in place of a single "\fC%\fR".
For the first example in \fB(1)\fR above the following would be required:
.RS
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .describe-word.american-command ...
        ... "grep -i \\"^%s (\\" /tmp/words.txt"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
For the second example:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .describe-word.american-command "mydict -d \\"%s (\\""
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.RE
.IP \fB4)\fR
Only required for the second mode, for use with \fBdescribe-word\fR's own GUI,
the setting of another  variable is required,  the  presence of this  variable
determines which mode is to be used.
.IP
The variable \fC.describe-word.\fR\fI<language>\fR\fC-search\fR must be set to
a
.Hl "regex search pattern" RegularExpressions 2
which will match the required  definition(s) in the command out put, the first
group   ("\fC\\(...\\)\fR")   must  enclose  the  required  definition,  again
"\fC%s\fR"  can be used in  place  of the  word  and  "\fC%%\fR"  for a single
"\fC%\fR". \fBdescribe-word\fR simply uses
.Ht search-buffer 2
repeatedly to find all definitions of the current word, it then uses the value
of the variable
.Ht @s1 4
to get the  individual  definitions.  For  example  for the first  example the
following is required:
.RS
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .describe-word.american-search  "^\\(%s (.*\\)\\n"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Note that the word being defined  should be kept in the definition if possible
as the
.Hl "spell rules" add-spell-rule 2
are used to  look-up  base  words  when a  derivitive  of a word is not found,
therefore the word being defined may not be clear (e.g.  \fIdeactivate\fR  can
be derived from  \fIactivate\fR  but their meanings are very  different). Also
long text lines are automatically wrapped by the GUI.
.RE
.PP
The required variables should be added to the user setup file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht spell-word 3 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 ,
.Ht find-word 3 .
.ad
.FH
