.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3osd002.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Tue Feb 2 21:10:34 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd002.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell|osd
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e$\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH spell-buffer 3
.XI spell-buffer 3 "Spell check the current buffer"
.XI spell-word 3 "\*(C0Spell check a single word"
.XI spell-edit-word 3 "Edits a spell word entry"
.XI find-word 3 "Find a using spelling dictionaries"
.SH NAME
.Me "|spell-buffer"
spell-buffer \- Spell check the current buffer
.br
.Me "|spell-word"
spell-word \- Spell check a single word
.br
.Me "|spell-edit-word"
spell-edit-word \- Edits a spell word entry
.br
.Me "|find-word"
find-word \- Find a using spelling dictionaries
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBspell-buffer\fR
.br
\fIn\fR \fBspell-word\fR ["\fIword\fR"] \*(C0
.br
\fBspell-edit-word\fR ["\fIword\fR"]
.br
\fBfind-word\fR ["\fIword\fR"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(mE provides an integrated spell checker with the following features:-
.BS
Different languages.
.BU
Dialog control of the speller.
.BU
Best guess capability.
.BU
\fIReplace\fR and \fIReplace all\fR, \fIIgnore\fR and \fIIgnore All\fR
.BU
Undo capability.
.BU
Adding new words and endings to speller.
.BU
Auto correct of commonly occurring mistakes.
.BU
Word finder, allows words to be searched with wild cards.
.BE
.B spell-buffer
spell checks the current buffer, from the current  position, to the end of the
buffer. On invocation, an
.Ht osd 2
dialog is opened and any corrections are made through this interface.
.PP
The dialog  provides the user with an interface  from which a new spelling may
be selected, in addition  new words may be added to the  spelling  dictionary.
The dialog entries are defined as follows:-
.IP \fBWord\fR
The \fBword\fR  entry contains the erroneous word, this is presented in a text
dialog box which may be  manually  edited to correct. If the word is  manually
corrected,  then it is spell checked prior to insertion,  and a new guess list
is  created.  The  user  may  elect  to  replace  the  word,  take  one of the
suggestions or re-edit the misspelled word.
.IP \fBMeaning\fR
The meaning button provides a convenient interface to
.Ht describe-word 3
for looking up the meaning of the current word. The \fBInsert\fR button within
the describe-word dialog will replace the current word in the spell-buffer.
.IP \fBSuggestions\fR
The  suggestions  entry  contains  a list  of  suggestions  as to the  correct
spelling of the word. The list is ranked in order of the best match, typically
the misspelled  word appears at (or near) the top of the list, unless the word
is unknown or there are gross errors in the  spelling.  Selecting  the word in
the list with a single click of the mouse selects the word as the replacement,
the actual  replacement is performed by the \fBReplace\fR or \fBReplace All\fR
buttons. Alternatively, double selecting a guess word replaces the word.
.IP \fBLanguage\fR
The  \fBlanguage\fR  entry  allows  the user to select  the  current  spelling
language.  The new language is chosen from the dialog box. The language may be
changed at any time during the spell  operation  and is effective  immediately.
The \fBExt\fR  languages  are extended  dictionaries  that contain  additional
words, it is  recommended  that all  spelling is  performed  with the extended
dictionaries (where available).
.IP \fBReplace\fR
The  \fBreplace\fR  button  is  activated  when a new word has been  edited or
selected as a candidate for replacement. Selecting  \fBreplace\fR modifies the
erroneous word in the buffer with the newly selected word.
.IP "\fBReplace All\fR"
The \fBReplace  All\fR button is similar to the  \fBReplace\fR  button, except
that it  automatically  replaces any  subsequent  occurrences of the erroneous
word with the newly selected word. The replacement  words are retained for the
\*(mS edit session and are lost when the editor is closed.
.IP \fBIgnore\fR
The  \fBignore\fR  button  requests that the speller ignore the erroneous word
and continue to spell the buffer.
.IP "\fBIgnore All\fR"
The \fBIgnore All\fR button is similar to the \fBIngore\fR button, except that
it  automatically  ignores the erroneous word thereafter. The ignore words are
retained for the \*(mS edit session and are lost when the editor is closed.
.IP \fBAdd\fR
\fBAdd\fR adds the current  erroneous word to the  dictionary,  thereafter the
word is  recognized as a valid word.  \fBAdd\fR  should only be used for words
which have no  derivatives,  it is generally  better to add a new word through
the \fBEdit\fR  interface  where a new \fIbase\fR  word may be specified  with
it's derivatives.
.IP \fBEdit\fR
The  \fBEdit\fR  button  executes  \fBspell-edit-word\fR  giving  the  current
erroneous  word. This allows new words and  auto-corrections  to be defined as
well as existing words to be altered, see full description below.
.IP \fBFind\fR
The  \fBFind\fR  button executes  \fBfind-word\fR giving the current word as a
starting  seed. This  allows  the user to search  for the word  using a simple
search  criteria, see full description below.
.IP "\fBUndo Last\fR"
The \fBundo Last\fR button restores the user to the previous  spelling so that
it may be re-entered, any  replacement  text that was made is restored to it's
original spelling.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the speller and returns the user to the buffer.
.PP
.B spell-word
checks a single  word which is either  supplied by the user, or if an argument
is given, the word under (or to the left of) the cursor  position. If the word
is correct, a simple  message-line  print-out  is given,  otherwise  the main
spell  \fBosd\fR  dialog is opened and the user may check the spelling  within
the context of the spell dialog as described above.
.PP
The  default  key  binding  of "\fCesc  $\fR"  supplies  an  argument  forcing
\fBspell-word\fR to check the current buffer word.
.B spell-word
is often used to check the  spelling  of a word  outside of the context of the
editor (i.e. when working on paper, or when doing at that prize crossword !!).
.PP
\fBspell-edit-word\fR  allows words in  dictionaries  to be altered as well as
new words and  auto-corrections  to be defined. On  invocation,  an  \fBosd\fR
dialog is opened and  changes  are made  through  this  interface,  defined as
follows:-
.IP \fBWord\fR
The  \fBword\fR  entry to be  changed or added. If  \fBspell-edit-word\fR  was
executed via spell-buffer  \fBEdit\fR  button, this will be set to the current
word.
.IP "\fBNo word set\fR"
The word  entry is empty,  most of the  functionallity  will not be  available
until a word is entered.
.IP "\fBNew Word\fR"
To add a new word, the  derivatives  of the new word should be selected  using
the prefix and suffix options. Note that not all  derivatives are listed, only
one example derivative  of each
.Hl "spell rule" add-spell-rule 2
is given.
.IP
\fBBE  CAREFUL  WITH THE CASE OF THE BASE  WORD:\fR new words that are entered
are case  sensitive, as a general rule the  \fIword\fR in the \fBWord\fR  text
box should be edited to it's base form and should be  presented  in lower case
characters  (unless  it  is  a  proper  name,  in  which  case  it  should  be
capitalized, or is an abbreviation or acronym when it might be upper case).
.IP
When the appropriate derivatives of the new word have been selected, it may be
added to the dictionary  using the \fBAdd\fR button. This adds the word to the
users  personal  dictionary.  Please note that if there are numerous  standard
words  missing then check that an  \fIextended\fR  dictionary  (designated  by
\fBExt\fR in the language) is being used, the extended  dictionaries more than
double the repertoire of words available.
.IP
Words  added  to  the  dictionary  may  be  subsequently   removed  using  the
\fBDelete\fR  button,  typing the existing  word in the  \fBWord\fR  entry and
selecting \fBDelete\fR button removes the existing word.
.IP "\fBAuto-Correct\fR"
Selection of the  \fBAuto-Correct\fR  button  allows a replacement  word to be
entered in the \fBTo\fR text entry.  Selecting  \fBAdd\fR  adds the  automatic
correction  to  the  speller.  Thereafter,  whenever  the  erroneous  word  is
encountered  the  replacement  word is always used to replace it, without user
intervention.
.IP
Entering  an  exiting  \fIauto-correct\fR  word into the dialog and  selecting
\fBDelete\fR removes an existing auto-correct entry.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the \fBEdit\fR dialog.
.PP
\fBfind-word\fR  opens the word finder  dialog. This allows the user to search
for a word using a simple  search  criteria.  (This is ideal for  cheating  at
crosswords  !!). The word to be searched  for is entered  into the  \fBWord\fR
\fBMask\fR  and  may use  wild  cards  \fB*\fR  to  represent  any  number  of
characters, \fB?\fR to represent an unknown character and \fB[\fR..\fB]\fR for
a range of characters.
.PP
For  example,  searching  for  \fCt?e?e\fR   presents  the  list  \fItheme\fR,
\fIthere\fR  and  \fIthese\fR.  Searching for \fCt*n\fR lists all of the words
beginning with \fCt\fR and ending in \fCn\fR. See
.Ht $find-words 5
for a full discription of the format used by search engine. 
.PP
The words that match are returned in the scrolling dialog, and may be selected
with the mouse (or cursor keys). The \fBInsert\fR  button inserts the selected
word into the current buffer or into the \fBWord\fR entry if executed from the
\fBspell-buffer\fR  dialog.  Note that the list  presented  is  limited to 200
words, selecting \fBnext\fR gets the next 200 words, and so on. The \fBExit\fR
button exits the dialog.
.SH NOTES
The words added to the speller during a MicroEmacs  session are saved when the
editor  is  closed.  The  user is  prompted  to save  the  dictionary,  if the
dictionary is not saved then any words added are lost.
.PP
All \fIignore\fR  words  accumulated  during a spell session are lost when the
editor is closed. In order to retain  \fIignore\fR words, it is suggested that
they are added to the personal dictionary rather than be ignored.
.PP
The     personal      spelling      dictionary     is     typically     called
\fI<user>\fR\fI<type>\fR.edf,  and is stored in the default user location. The
dictionary names are specified in the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog.
.PP
\fBfind-word\fR  may claim to have found more words than are actually  listed.
The use of  derivatives  in the  spell  algorithm  allows a single  word to be
present several times.  \fBfind-word\fR  counts each occurrence but it is only
listed once.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht osd 2 ,
.Ht spell 2 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht describe-word 3 ,
.Ht $find-words 5 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
