.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Sat Aug 22 09:00:06 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd006.3,v 2.14 2009/08/29 17:14:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH "MainMenu" 3
.XI "MainMenu" - "The top main menu"
.SH NAME
Main Menu \- The top main menu
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR osd
.br
.B toolbar
.ad
.SH "FRAME COMPOSIOTION"
The frame composition presented by \*(mS is defined as follows:-
.CS
          +--------------------------------------------+
          | File  Edit .. .                   Help     | Menu Line
          +-----+-+----------------------------------+-+
          |     |=|                                  |=|Split Vertically
          |  T  |^|                                  |^|
          |  O  |||         CURRENT WINDOW           |#|Scroll Bar
          |  O  |#|                                  |#|
          |  L  |#|                                  |V|
          |  B  |#||=* file = 17:30 04/1/11 (Aeb) == |*| Mode Line
          |  A  |#|^  Split Horizontally             |^|
          |  R  | |  ^ Buffer edit(*) Read Only(%)   |#|
          |     | |                                  |#|
          |     | |          OTHER WINDOW            | |
          |     |v|                                  |v|
          +<--->+*+|-- file - 17:30 04/1/11 (AeB) ---+*| Mode Line
          |f-isearch..: forw                           | Message Line
          +--------------------------------------------+
.CE 0
.IP "\fBMenu Line\fR"
The  \fIMenu  Line\fR  appears  at the top of the  buffer. A left click of the
mouse on the menu line shows a menu dialog for user selection.
.IP "\fBWindow\fR"
The windows appear at the center of the frame,  typically with a scroll bar to
the right of the window and a \fBMode Line\fR at the bottom of the window. The
mouse interactions with the window are defined as follows:-
.RS
.IP "Left mouse in window \- Selecting a region"
Regions may be selected with
the mouse. Select a position with the left mouse, keep the left button
pressed move the mouse to the desired region end and release the left button.
Theregion is hilighted, the text is copied the user does not need to perform
any other selection operation to copy the text.
.IP "Right mouse in window \- Pop up Dialog"
A right mouse click in the window brings up a context sensitive pop-up menu. A
right click on a spelling error, with
.Ht auto-spell 3
enabled shows a list of possible corrections.
.IP "Right mouse on mode line \- Pop up Dialog"
A right mouse click on the \fBMode  Line\fR brings up a pop-up menu to control
the buffer.
.IP "Left mouse on mode line \- split and resize window"
If the \fC|\fR character is selected on the \fBMode Line\fR then the window is
split into two  horizontally.  If the mode line is dragged with the mouse then
the buffer is re-sized. If the window is dragged into another  window then the
other window is deleted.
.IP "Left mouse on scroll bar \- Up/down action"
A left  click on the  scroll  bar moves the  window  up/down.  If the  \fC=\fR
component  of the  scroll  bar is  selected  then the window is split into two
vertically.  Dragging the scroll-bar  with the mouse  horizontally  causes the
window to be  re-sized.  Selecting  the  \fC*\fR in the  corner of the  window
allows the window to be resized both horizontally and vertically.
.IP "Right mouse on scroll bar \- Scroll bar size"
A right click of the mouse on the scroll bar allows the scroll bar width to be
altered.
.RE
.IP "Message Line"
The  message  line is used from  command  entry and  messages.  On  entering a
command such as
.Ht isearch-forward 2
then the user  enters  text  into the  \fBMessage  Line\fR  until the  command
completes. Messages are also displayed in the message line using
.Ht ml-write 2 .
.IP "Toolbar"
The toolbar window is displayed if
.Hl toolbar toolbar 3
mode is enabled in
.Ht user-setup 3 .
The mouse  interaction is a little different from a conventional  mode line, a
mouse  right  click on the toolbar  \fBMode  Line\fR  allows the tollbar to be
configured. A Right click on the \fC<\fR and \fC>\fR characters of the toolbar
mode line moves to the next or previous tool.
.SH "MAIN MENU"
The  main  menu is  provided  to give an  easier  access  to  parts  of  \*(mS
functionality,  the menu is not burnt into \*(mS but  defined on  start-up  in
\fCme.emf\fR and \fCosd.emf\fR. The
.Ht user-setup 3
command  can be used to set  whether  the menu is  always  visible  and if the
Alt-Hotkeys are enabled (i.e. '\fCA-f\fR' to open the \fBFile\fR menu).
.PP
The main menu is
.Ht osd 2
dialog  number  \fC0\fR so key  bindings  can be made which will open the main
menu, an  argument  of \fC0\fR  will simply open the main menu, an argument of
\fC0x0n0000\fR  will not only  open the main menu but also the  \fCn\fRth  sub
menu, e.g. to open the edit menu use:
.CS
    0x020000 osd
.CE
Following is a brief description of the main menu items:
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" FILE
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "File Menu"
.IP "\fCNew\fR"
Changes the current buffer to a new buffer.
.IP "\fCOpen\fR"
Opens a dialog  enabling  the user to select  files for opening into \*(mS. By
default the dialog opens the selected file using command
.Ht find-file 2 ,
but if the view option is selected the
.Ht view-file 2
command is used. The binary or encrypt options configure whether the files are
to be loaded with
.Ht binary 2m
or
.Ht crypt 2m
modes enabled.
.IP "\fCQuick Open\fR"
Opens a sub-menu list all user file types (defined in
.Ht user-setup 3 ).
Selecting one will open another  sub-dialog list all files of that type in the
current directory, selecting a file will open it using command
.Ht find-file 2 .
.IP "\fCFavorites\fR"
Opens a  sub-menu  enabling  the  user to add new  favorite  files,  edit  the
existing list of favorite files, or select an existing  favorite file in which
case the file is opened using command
.Ht find-file 2 .
The favorite file using to store the list is "\fB$MENAME\fR\fC.eff\fR"  and is
saved in the first path given in the
.Ht $search-path 5 .
Each favorite file takes 2 lines in the file, the first is the text  displayed
in the dialog (note that characters '\fC\\\fR' and '\fC&\fR' must be protected
with a '\fC\\\fR'  and the  '\fC&\fR'  can be used to set the Hot key) and the
second line is the file name. A line with a single '\fC-\fR' character creates
a separater line in the dialog.
.\".IP "\fCFind Tag\fR"
.\"Only  visible when a \fCtags\fR  file is found in the current  directory,  the
.\"command  jumps to the  current tag or if not on a tag or the tag is not found,
.\"opens a dialog enabling the user to select a tag. See command
.\".Ht find-tag 2
.\"for more information.
.IP "\fCClose\fR"
Closes the current buffer, executes a dialog form of the command
.Ht delete-buffer 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCAttributes\fR"
Opens a dialog  enabling the user to set the current buffers file  attributes,
i.e. read and write permissions.
See command
.Ht file-attrib 3
for more information.
.IP "\fCSave\fR"
Saves the current buffer, executes a dialog form of the command
.Ht save-buffer 2 .
.IP "\fCSave As\fR"
Saves the contents of the current buffer as a new file, executes a dialog form
of the command
.Ht write-buffer 2 .
.IP "\fCSave All\fR"
Saves all changes buffers and session  history,  executes a dialog form of the
command
.Ht save-all 3 .
.IP "\fCReread File\fR"
Reloads the  contents of the current  buffer from the file system,  discarding
any changes, executes
.Ht reread-file 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCPrint Setup\fR"
Opens a dialog which enables the user to configure the printer  driver, output
location and page layout (executes command
.Ht print-setup 3 ).
.IP "\fCPrint\fR"
Prints the contents of the current buffer to the printer, executes command
.Ht print-buffer 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCFile Browser\fR"
Launches the file browser which enables the file system to be manipulated  and
traversed, executes command
.Ht file-browser 3 .
.IP "\fCFTP Browser\fR"
Launches the FTP browser, an FTP client, executes command
.Ht ftp 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCLoad Session\fR"
Loads a new session into  MicroEmacs, the current  session is saved and closed
and the new session is loaded. The user is prompted  from the command  line to
provide the name of the new session to load. See
.Ht read-session 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCExit\fR"
Exits the editor,  prompting  the user to save any unsaved  buffers,  executes
command
.Ht save-buffers-exit-emacs 2 .
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" EDIT
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Edit Menu"
.IP "\fCUndo\fR"
Undoes the last edit in the current buffer (executes command
.Ht undo 2 ).
.IP "\fCRedo\fR"
Redo the last  undo, only  available  immediately  after an undo. This is also
done via the
.Ht undo 2
command.
.IP "\fCUndo All\fR"
Undo all  edits in the  current  buffer  until  the last  save or no more undo
history is available. Executes the command
.Ht undo 2
with a 0 numerical argument.
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCSet Mark\fR"
Sets the position of start of a selected region, executes command
.Ht set-mark 2 .
.IP "\fCCopy Region\fR"
Copies a marked up region, executes command
.Ht copy-region 2 .
.IP "\fCKill Region\fR"
Deletes a marked up region  and  places the  deleted  text in the kill  buffer
which may be retrieved using \fBPaste\fR, executes command
.Ht kill-region 2 .
.IP "\fCDelete Region\fR"
Deletes a marked up region but the  deleted  text is not saved in the the kill
buffer and cannot be retrieved using \fBPaste\fR.
.IP "\fCPaste\fR"
Inserts  text  from  the  clipboard  into the  buffer  at the  current  cursor
position, executes command
.Ht yank 2 .
.IP "\fCCut Rectangle\fR"
Deletes a selected  rectangular region from the buffer, the vertical extents
of the cut are  determined by the column  position of the start and end of the
selected region, executes command
.Ht kill-rectangle 2 .
.IP "\fCCopy Rectangle\fR"
Copies a selected  rectangular region from the buffer, the vertical extents of
the copy are  determined  by the column  position  of the start and end of the
selected region, executes command
.Ht copy-rectangle 3 .
.IP "\fCPaste Rectangle\fR"
Inserts a rectangle region into the buffer at the current cursor position (and
for the subsequent lines at the given column position), executes the command 
.Ht yank-rectangle 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCInsert Symbol\fR"
Dialog  presented  to select a character  symbol for  insertion,  executes the
command
.Ht insert-symbol 3 .
.IP "\fCInsert Date/Time\fR"
Inserts  the  current  date  and time at the  cursor  position,  a sub-menu
is used to determine the format of the insertion string.
.IP "\fCInsert File Name\fR"
Inserts  the name of the file at the current  cursor  position,  executes  the
command
.Ht insert-file-name 2 .
.IP "\fCInsert File\fR"
Inserts  the  contents of a file into the buffer at the cursor  position,  the
user is prompted for the name of the file to insert. Executes the command
.Ht insert-file 2 .
.IP "\fCDraw Lines\fR"
Moves into line  drawing  mode, the cursor  keys are used to control  the line
drawing,  use  \fBesc-h\fR  for help, \fBreturn\fR to exit draw mode and  \fBC-g\fR to quit draw mode  without
making changes. Executes the command
.Ht draw 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCToggle Insert Mode\fR"
Modifies character entry behavior, moves between overwrite and insertion mode,
changes the buffer mode 
.Ht over 2m .
.IP "\fCToggle View Mode\fR"
Toggles the buffer  between view mode and edit mode, in view mode the contents
of the buffer may not be altered. Change the buffer mode
.Ht view 2m .
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" SEARCH
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Search Menu"
.IP "\fCIncremental Search\fR"
Initiates an  incremental  search, the user is prompted to enter the string to
search for, execute the command
.Ht isearch-forward 2 .
.IP "\fCHilight Search\fR"
Opens a dialog which allows lines of the buffer to be searched and highlighted
by changing the line color. Setting a line highlight is a temporary change, it
does not effect any files and is lost when the buffer is deleted, see 
.Ht osd-search 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCFind\fR"
Opens a dialogue for searching the buffer for a given string, see 
.Ht osd-search 3 .
.IP "\fCFind Next\fR"
Finds the next string in the buffer using the last search string, uses
.Ht hunt-forward 2 .
.IP "\fCFind Prev\fR"
Finds the previous string in the buffer using the last search string, uses
.Ht hunt-backward 2 .
.IP "\fCReplace\fR"
Opens a dialogue for searching and replacing the buffer for a given string, see 
.Ht osd-search 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCFind in Files\fR"
Initiates a string  search of the file system, in the directory of the current
buffer using
.Ht grep 3 .
.IP "\fCReplace in Files\fR" 
Initiates a string  search and replace of the file system, in the directory of
the current buffer using
.Ht query-replace-all-string 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCSet Bookmark\fR"
Places a bookmark in the buffer which  provides a quick method of returning to
the buffer  position, the user is prompted for a single  character to identify
the position the buffer. Executes command 
.Ht set-alpha-mark 2 .
.IP "\fCGoto Bookmark\fR"
Moves the cursor to a book mark position defined with 
.BR "Set Bookmark" ,
the user is prompted for a single character that identifies the bookmark.
Executes command
.Ht goto-alpha-mark 2 .
.IP "\fCGoto Fence\fR"
When the  cursor is on a fence  character  (i.e.  \fC{\fR,  \fC}\fR,  \fC(\fR,
\fC)\fR,  \fC[\fR,  \fC]\fR, ...) then the other matching fence is located and
the buffer position is changed to the other fence character.
Executes command
.Ht goto-matching-fence 2 .
.IP "\fCGoto Line\fR"
Moves cursor to the specified line number or relative line position,  executes
a dialog form of the command
.Ht goto-line  2 .
.IP "\fCGoto Tag\fR"
Only  active  when a  \fCtags\fR  file is found in the  current  directory,  a
dialog  is  presented  with the tags, on  selection  of a tag then the file is
opened and the cursor position is moved to the definition of the tag.
See command
.Ht find-tag 2
for more information.
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" VIEW
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "View Menu"
.IP "\fCNarrow Out\fR"
Hides the selected region of the buffer, executes command
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
with a numeric argument of \fC4\fR.
.IP "\fCNarrow To\fR"
Hides all of the buffer with the exception of the selected region,
executes command
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
with a numeric argument of \fC3\fR.
.IP "\fCRemove Single Narrow\fR"
Removes a single narrowed region of the buffer under the cursor. Executes command
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
with a numeric argument of \fC2\fR.
.IP "\fCRemove All Narrows\fR"
Removes all of the narrowed regions in the buffer, executes command
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
with a numeric argument of \fC1\fR.
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCBuffer Info\fR"
Provides  information  on the buffer current cursor  position on the mode line
including line number, character under the cursor etc. See
.Ht buffer-info 2 .
.IP "\fC Word Count\fR"
Counts the number of words in the selected region (between point and mark),
executes 
.Ht count-words 2 .
.IP "\fCOccurrences\fR"
Finds all  occurrences  of a given  string in the buffer. The user is prompted
for the  string  to find. A second  window  opens and all  occurrences  of the
string in the buffer are  presented,  selecting  an item from this list, using
the mouse, moves the cursor to the specified occurrence. See
.Ht occur 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCBuffer\fR"
Lists the current buffers in the editor,  selecting one changes the
current buffer to the selection.
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCMain Menu\fR"
Hides or shows the Main Menu. If the main menu has been  hidden then  \fBF1\fR
brings up the menu, the main menu may be re-activated then if necessary.
.IP "\fCScroll Bars\fR"
Hides or shows scroll bars within the buffer.
.IP "\fCTool Bar\fR"
Hides or shows the tool bar window, see
.Ht toolbar 3 .
.IP "\fCWhite Characters\fR"
Hides or shows the white space characters in the buffer.
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" FORMAT
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Format Menu"
.IP "\fCRestyle Buffer\fR"
Re-styles the layout of the buffer based on the major-mode  setting.  Executes
the command
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 .
.IP "\fCRestyle Region\fR"
Re-styles  the  layout  of a  selected  region  of  the  buffer  based  on the
major-mode setting. Executes the command
.Ht restyle-region 3 .
.IP "\fCIncrease Indent\fR"
Increases  the  indentation  of a line or region by a single  single  Tab stop
position. Executes the command 
.Ht indent-increase 3 .
.IP "\fCDecrease Indent\fR"
Decreases  the  indentation  of a line or region by a single  single  Tab stop
position. Executes the command 
.Ht indent-decrease 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCIQ Fill Paragraph\fR"
Reformat a paragraph  using the current fill mode, handling  embedded  bullets
with no line separation. Executes the command
.Ht ifill-paragraph 3 .
.IP "\fCFill Paragraph\fR"
Reformat a paragraph  using the current fill mode using the standard paragraph
fill mode. Executes the command
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 .
.IP "\fCFill All Paragraphs\fR"
Reformats all  paragraphs in the buffer using the standard  paragraph  filling
mode. Executes command
.Ht fill-paragraph 2
with a very large  positive  numerical  argument.  Note that this only effects
paragraphs from the current position onwards.
.IP "\fCAll Paragraphs to Lines\fR"
Converts  all  paragraphs  to a single line, one line per original  paragraph.
Paragraphs are typically converted to a single line before copying into a Word
Processor (i.e. Word,  StarOffice  etc.). The Word Processor  performs its own
text wrapping  therefore it is important that \*(mS  paragraphs with new lines
in them are not copied.
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCChange Character Set ...\fR"
Converts  the  ASCII  text from one  character  set to  another,  this  allows
diacritical marks to be maintained.
.IP "\fCTabs to Spaces\fR"
Converts \fCTAB\fR  characters to spaces whilst retaining the correct tab stop
positions  within the file. Note that if the tab stops  appear to be incorrect
then the tab width should be temporarily changed using 
.Ht buffer-setup 3 
before converting to spaces.
.IP "\fCClean Buffer\fR"
Cleans up the buffer by removing white space from the ends of all lines,
see 
.Ht clean 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCCapitalize Word\fR"
Capitalizes the characters from the cursor  position, or next word, to the end
of the word using
.Ht capitalize-word 2 .
.IP "\fCLower Case Word\fR"
Changes characters to lowercase from the cursor position, or next word, to the
end of the word using
.Ht lower-case-word 2 .
.IP "\fCUpper Case Word\fR"
Changes characters to uppercase from the cursor position, or next word, to the
end of the word using
.Ht upper-case-word 2 .
.IP "\fCLower Case Region\fR"
Lowercase all characters in the current region using 
.Ht lower-case-region 2 .
.IP "\fCUpper Case Region\fR"
Uppercase all characters in the current region using 
.Ht upper-case-region 2 .
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" TOOLS
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Tools Menu"
.IP "\fCCurrent Buffer Tools\fR"
For some file formats \*(mS provides a file format  specific set of tools, see
the
.Hl "file type" FileTypes -
help page for more specific information.
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCSpell Word\fR"
Spell checks a word entered on the command line, 
executes the command
.Ht spell-word 3 .
.IP "\fCSpell Buffer\fR"
Spell checks the buffer from the current cursor position onwards,
executes command
.Ht spell-buffer 3 .
.IP "\fCWord Complete\fR"
Takes the incomplete  word to the left of the cursor and attempts to complete
the word by using the users current  language  dictionary, use \fCTAB\fR for a
list of possible completions. Executes the command
.Ht expand-word 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCCompare Windows\fR"
Compares the contents of two buffers, the  comparison  starts from the current
cursor  position  in each  buffer  and the cursor  position  should be aligned
before starting the comparison, executes the command
.Ht compare-windows 2 .
.IP "\fCDiff Changes\fR"
Compares  the current  buffer with the last backup  version of the buffer, the
buffer has to be saved before the  comparison  may be performed,  executes the
command
.Ht diff-changes 3 .
.IP "\fCDiff\fR"
Runs a 
.Ht diff 3
command  to  difference  two  files,  the user is  prompted  each of the files
before  running the command. The results of the  difference are presented in a
new buffer window.
.IP "\fCGraphical Diff\fR"
Runs a graphics  difference  between  two files where the files are  presented
side by side. The user is prompted for the two files to compare. See also 
.Ht gdiff 3 
which uses a command line prompt for the files rather than a dialog.
.IP "\fCCompile\fR"
Starts a compilation or build process, 
executes the command
.Ht compile 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCSort Lines\fR"
Performs  an  alphabetical  case  sensitive  sort of the  lines in a  selected
region, the lines are re-ordered in ascending  alphabetic  order. Executes the
command
.Ht sort-lines 2 .
.IP "\fCSort Lines (Ignore Case)\fR"
Performs  an  alphabetical  case  insensitive  sort of the lines in a selected
region, the lines are re-ordered in ascending  alphabetic  order. Executes the
command
.Ht sort-lines 2 .
.IP "\fCUnique Lines\fR"
Removes  duplicated  adjacent  lines in a region. The region  should be sorted
before 
.Ht uniq 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCUser Setup\fR"
Runs a dialog interface to configure \*(mS, executes the command
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCBuffer Setup\fR"
Runs a dialog  interface to change the session  configuration of a buffer i.e.
assignment of the major-mode etc. This command changes the current buffer only
and does not affect other buffers. Executes the command
.Ht buffer-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCMajor Mode Setup\fR"
Runs a dialog interface which allows the major mode to be changed. 
Executes the command
.Ht major-mode-setup 3 .
.IP "\fCScheme Editor\fR"
Runs a dialog  which  allows  the  current  highlighting  scheme to be edited,
modification of the scheme affects all buffers. Executes the command
.Ht scheme-editor 3 .
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" ADVANCED
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Advanced Menu"
.IP "\fCRecord Macro\fR"
Starts recording the key strokes to create a keyboard macro, see 
.Ht start-kbd-macro 2 .
.IP "\fCExecute Macro\fR"
Executes a previously recorded keyboard macro, see
.Ht execute-kbd-macro 2 .
.IP "\fCName Macro\fR"
Allows a keyboard macro to be named, see
.Ht name-kbd-macro 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCExecute Command\fR"
Executes a named \*(mS  command,  the user is prompted to enter the command to
be executed, see 
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.IP "\fCExecute File\fR"
Executes a \*(mS macro file,  typically  used to load and install  Macros into
the editor, see 
.Ht execute-file 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCCalculate\fR"
Invokes a simple command line calculator, see
.Ht calc 3 .
.IP "\fCNotes\fR"
Invokes the 
.Ht notes 3 
tool which may be used to organize and store  miscellaneous  information (i.e.
short notes). 
.IP "\fCOrganizer\fR"
Invokes the 
.Ht organizer 3 
tool which provides a calendar and address book. 
.IP "\fCSend Mail\fR"
Create and send a electronic  mail message, this  requires  that the mail tool
has been configured, see
.Ht mail 3 .
.IP "\fCView Mail\fR"
Start the mail reading tool 
.Ht vm 3 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCIpipe command\fR"
Start a incremental  shell command, the command runs in the background and the
results are collected in a new buffer window, using 
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 .
.IP "\fCShell\fR"
Creates a new shell command window outside of the editor using
.Ht shell 2 .
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" WINDOW
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Window Menu"
.IP "\fCSplit Window V\fR"
Splits the current buffer window into two vertically  (stacked),  executes the
command
.Ht split-window-vertically 2 .
.IP "\fCGrow Window V\fR"
Increases the height of the current buffer window by a single line, executes the
command
.Ht change-window-depth 2 
with an argument of 1.
.IP "\fCShrink Window V\fR"
Reduces the height of the current  buffer  window by a single  line,  executes
command
.Ht change-window-depth 2
with an argument of -1.
.IP "\fCSplit Window H\fR"
Splits  the  current  buffer  window  into two  horizontally  (side by  side),
executes command
.Ht split-window-horizontally 2 .
.IP "\fCGrow Window H\fR"
Increases the width of the current buffer window by a single character, executes the
command
.Ht change-window-width 2
with an argument of 1.
.IP "\fCShrink Window H\fR"
Reduces  the  width  of the  current  buffer  window  by a  single  character,
executes the command
.Ht change-window-width 2
with an argument of -1.
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCOne Window\fR"
Makes the current  buffer the only window on the screen, the other buffers are
removed from the screen, 
executes the command
.Ht delete-other-windows 2 .
.IP "\fCDelete Window\fR"
Removes  the  current  buffer  window  from  the  screen,  other  windows  are
re-organized to occupy the space created by deleting the window, executes the command
.Ht delete-window 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCPrevious Window\fR"
Moves focus to the previous window using 
.Ht previous-window 2 .
.IP "\fCNext Window\fR"
Moves focus to the next window using 
.Ht next-window 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCCreate New Frame\fR"
Create  an new  external  frame,  only  available  on  version  which  support
multiple-window frames. Executes command
.Ht create-frame 2 .
.IP "\fCClose This Frame\fR"
Closes  the  current   frame,  only   available  on  version   which   support
multiple-window  frames. The command  will fail if this is the only frame, use
File -> Exit to exit \*(mS, executes command
.Ht delete-frame 2 .
.IP "\fCNext Frame\fR"
Shows the next internal frame, see
.Ht next-frame 2 .
.\"*************************************************************************
.\" HELP
.\"*************************************************************************
.SS "Help Menu"
.IP "\fCMajor Mode Help\fR"
Display  the help  information  associated  with the current  buffer. For some
major  mode (file  format)  \*(mS  provides  a major mode  specific  help page
providing  details of  key-bindings  and tools specific to the current buffers
file type.
.IP "\fCGeneral Help\fR"
Starts the 
.Ht osd-help 3 
dialog which allows the help pages to the searched. 
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCList Bindings\fR"
Lists the key bindings  associated  with the current  buffer, the bindings are
displayed in a separate window and include the buffer and global key bindings. 
Executes the command
.Ht describe-bindings 2 .
.IP "\fCList Buffers\fR"
Lists the buffers  currently  active  within \*(mS, the list is presented in a
new  buffer  window  and shows the  buffer  name, size,  associated  files and
current mode. Executes the command
.Ht list-buffers 2 .
.IP "\fCList Commands\fR"
Lists all of the available  commands and key bindings in a new buffer  window,
executes the command
.Ht list-commands 2 .
.IP "\fCList Registry\fR"
Presents  the registry  hierarchy in a separate  buffer  window,  executes the
command
.Ht list-registry 2 .
.IP "\fCList Variables\fR"
Presents a list of all of the global  variables and their assigned values in a
new window, executes the command
.Ht list-variables 2 .
.IP "\fCCommand Apropos\fR"
Produces a list of commands that contain a given string as part of their name,
the user is prompted to enter the string to search for. Executes the command
.Ht command-apropos 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCDescribe key\fR"
Determines  the command that is bound to a specific  key, user is prompted for
the key  sequence,  the command  bound to that key is displayed.  executes the
command
.Ht describe-key 2 .
.IP "\fCDescribe Variable\fR"
Determine  the value of a \*(mS  variable,  user is prompted  for the variable
name. Executes the command
.Ht describe-variable 2 .
.IP "\fCDescribe Word\fR"
A  dictionary  function  that looks up the meaning of a word  specified on the
command line, executes the command
.Ht describe-word 3 .
.IP "\fCHelp on Command\fR"
Provides  help on a specific  \*(mS  command,  user  prompted for the command name.
Executes the command
.Ht help-command 2 .
.IP "\fCHelp on Variable\fR"
Provides  help on a specific  \*(mS  variable,  user prompted for the variable
name. Executes the command
.Ht help-variable 2 .
.\" -----------------
.IP "\fCGames\fR"
Opens a sub-menu listing all available games, see
.Hl "Games" Games -
for more information.
.IP "\fCProduct Support\fR"
Opens on-line
.Hl "Contact" Contact -
information.
.IP "\fCAbout MicroEmacs\fR"
Version and status information on the editor, 
executes the command
.Ht about 2 .
.SH NOTES
The main menu is defined using
.Ht osd 2
in macro files me.emf and osd.emf.
.PP
General  user  extensions  to the  main  menu  can be  added to the user  file
\fCmyosd.emf\fR which is executed once when the main menu is first opened. The
macro file can add new items to any of the main sub menus and can delete  most
existing items (some are dynamically added when appropriate,  these should not
be deleted). See \fCosd.emf\fR for examples of how to add items to the menu.
.PP
New sub-menus  should be added in the company or user setup files as this must
be done at start-up.  The content on the menu is not  required  until the main
menu is used so populating the new sub-menu can be done in \fCmyosd.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.ad
.FH
