.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sun Feb 6 18:14:27 2005
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd015.3,v 2.2 2024/10/13 17:14:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH file-type-setup 3
.XI file-type-setup - "Define file type set"
.SH NAME
file-type-setup \- Define file type set
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B file-type-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B file-type-setup
provides  a  dialog  interface  for  declaring  a set  of  common  files  type
categories and their  associated file extensions. The file type list is used in two places, the 
.Hl "main  menu" MainMenu 3 's
.C "File => Quick Open"
sub-menu and the main
.C "File => Open"
\fBFile Type\fR list. In each case the file type "\fCAll Files\fR" is automatically added.
.PP
.B file-type-setup
may be  invoked  directly  from  the  command  line or more  usually  from the
miscellaneous configuration item
.B "File Types"
in
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.PP
The user can add, remove and change the list of file types by using this dialog. An entry can be selected  for editing
or deletion by simply  selecting  it with the left mouse  button. A new entry may be added by simply  filling in the 3
entry boxes and selecting Add. Items in the Dialog are as follows.
.IP "\fCNo.\fR"
The file type entry number. A new entry is always added to the end of the list,  ignoring  this value. The position of
an existing entry can be changed by altering this field to the desired position and selecting the \fCChange\fR  button
to move it to its new position.
.IP "\fCName\fR"
The file type name, the string printed in the sub-menus.
.IP "\fCFile Mask List\fR"
A comma  ('\fC,\fR')  separated  list of file  masks  which  match the file type, e.g. for C and C++ source  files use
"\fC*.c,*.cc,*.cpp\fR".
.IP "\fCAdd\fR"
Adds a new entry to the list, only the  \fBName\fR and  \fBFileMask  List\fR  fields are used, the \fBNo.\fR  field is
ignored as the new entry is always added to the end of the list. The position can be altered by using the \fBChange\fR
button.
.IP "\fCModify\fR"
Alters an existing file type entry, all 3 fields must be set.
.IP "\fCDelete\fR"
Deletes the current entry number, only the \fBNo.\fR entry is used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-setup 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Hl "Top Main Menu" MainMenu 3 .
.ad
.FH
