.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Sat Aug 22 09:00:06 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd010.3,v 2.11 2009/08/29 17:14:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH major-mode-setup 3
.XI major-mode-setup - "Configures the current buffer settings"
.SH NAME
major-mode-setup \- Configures the current buffer settings
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B major-mode-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBMajor Mode\fR defines the operational  mode of the buffer,  controlling
highlighting and additional  commands that are available. The \fIMajor Mode\fR
is  determined  by the  file  type  content  and is  determined  from the file
extension or \fIMagic String\fR in the first few lines of the file.
.PP
\fBmajor-mode-setup\fR provides a dialog interface to configuring the setup of
the current  buffer's  file type within \*(mS.  \fBmajor-mode-setup\fR  may be
invoked from the main \fITools\fR menu or directly from the command line using
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.PP
The changes made to a configuration in  \fBmajor-mode-setup\fR  are maintained
in future  \*(mS  sessions by storing  them within the user's  setup  registry
file,  "\fI<logname>\fR\fC.erf\fR".  Note  that  not  all  file  types  may be
supported  by  \fBmajor-mode-setup\fR,  if not the help  menu item will not be
available.
.PP
The  contents of the dialog  change,  depending  on the  features  the current
buffer's file type  supports.  These  features are  implemented  and installed
within the
.Hl  "buffer's  file hook"  fileHooks  2 .
The following buttons are always present at the bottom of the dialog:
.IP "\fCSave\fR"
Saves the changes made to the  configuration  back to the users registry file,
i.e.  "\fI<Log-Name>\fR\fC.erf\fR"  but  does not  re-initialize  the  current
buffer.  No  changes   made  will  effect  the  current   buffer   unless  the
\fBCurrent\fR  button is pressed.  Buffers of the same type created  after the
save may inherrit some of the changes.
.IP "\fCCurrent\fR"
Makes  the  current   buffer   reflect  the  changes  made,   dismissing   the
\fBmajor-mode-setup\fR   dialog.  This  also   performs  the  above   '\fBSave\fR'
operation. Some changes such as dialog creation changes, will only take effect
when \*(mS is restarted.
.IP "\fCCancel\fR"
Quits major-mode-setup, if changes where not \fBSave\fRd or made \fBCurrent\fR
they will be lost.
.PP
Following is a list of configurable features which may be available:
.IP "Create Help Page"
Enables/disables  the  creation of a help page dialog for the tools  available
for the current file type.
.IP "Create Tools Menu"
Enables/disables  the creation of a file type specific sub menu located within
the main menu's \fBTools\fR sub-menu.
.IP "Use Author Mode"
For file types which have an automatic formatter/viewer  (currently only html)
enabling  this will simply load the file enabling the source code to be viewed
and edited. When disabled files of this type will be  automatically  processed
giving a more readable 'formatted' representation.
.IP "Insert New Template"
When  creating  a new  buffer/file  of this type, a default  template  will be
inserted if this is enabled. When disabled the buffer will remain empty.
.IP "Fence Display"
Enables or disables the displaying of matching fences for this file type. Note
that the way in which the matching fence is display is determined by the
\fBFence Display\fR option on the Platform page of
.Ht user-setup 3 ;
the \fBmajor-mode-setup\fR option is ignored if this option is set to
"\fCNever Display\fR".
.IP "Setup Hilighting"
Creates and enables the token
.Hl hilighting hilight 2
for the current file type.
.IP "Setup Auto Indent"
Enables  automatic  formating  (indenting)  for the  current  file  type.  The
indentation rules are either the built in 
.Hl "'C' indentation" indent 2
or created explicitly using the
.Ht indent 2
command. When enabled the
.Ht tab 2m
is still adhered to, but the
.Ht indent 2m
mode is ignored; when disabled the indent mode can be used.
.IP "Setup Auto Spell"
Enables the setting up of
.Ht auto-spell 3 .
When enabled the auto-spell key bindings are created and auto-spell is enabled
if enabled within the user-setup dialog.
.IP "Setup Folding"
Enables the setting up of section
.Hl folding collapse-current 3 ,
when enabled the folding key bindings are created.
.IP "Add Abbreviations"
Adds the file type's abbreviation file to the buffer using
.Ht buffer-abbrev-file 2
.IP "Search Modes: Exact"
Enables/disables the
.Ht exact 2m
mode over-riding the setting within the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog. If this  setting is changed  the  setting  within  user-setup  will be
ignored for the current file type.
.IP "Search Modes: Magic"
Enables/disables the
.Ht magic 2m
mode over-riding the setting within the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog. If this  setting is changed  the  setting  within  user-setup  will be
ignored for the current file type.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Auto"
Enables/disables the
.Ht auto 2m
mode.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Backup"
Enables/disables the
.Ht backup 2m
mode.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Indent"
Enables/disables the
.Ht indent 2m
mode.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Justify"
Enables/disables the
.Ht justify 2m
mode.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Tab"
Enables/disables the
.Ht tab 2m
mode over-riding the setting within the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog. If this  setting is changed  the  setting  within  user-setup  will be
ignored for the current file type.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Time"
Enables/disables the
.Ht time 2m
mode.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Undo"
Enables/disables the
.Ht undo 2m
mode over-riding the setting within the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog. If this  setting is changed  the  setting  within  user-setup  will be
ignored for the current file type.
.IP "Buffer Modes: Wrap"
Enables/disables the
.Ht wrap 2m
mode.
.SH NOTES
\fBmajor-mode-setup\fR is a macro using
.Ht osd 2 ,
defined in  \fCmajormod.emf\fR.  This macro configures the user settings of the
\fChkXXX.emf\fR files via
.Ht buffer-init 3 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-init 3 ,
.Ht major-mode-help 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 .
.ad
.FH
