.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Sat Jul 28 10:59:37 2001
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd012.3,v 2.8 2009/08/29 17:14:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd|print
.so me.tni
.TH print-setup 3
.XI print-setup - "Configure \*(mS's printer interface"
.SH NAME
print-setup \- Configure \*(mS's printer interface
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B print-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBprint-setup\fR provides a dialog interface for configuring \*(mS's printing
interface.  \fBprint-setup\fR  may be invoked from the main \fIFile\fR menu or
directly from the command line using
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.PP
The \fBprint-setup\fR  dialog is broken down into three pages of configuration
options, the following buttons are available at the bottom of each dialog:-
.IP "\fCPrint\fR"
Prints the current buffer using the current configuration.
.IP "\fCExit\fR"
Quits \fBprint-setup\fR, changes made to the configuration are saved.
.PP
The following pages appear in the dialog:-
.SS Printer
The \fBPrinter\fR page is used to configure the \fItype\fR\|,  \fIstyle\fR and
\fIlocation\fR of the printer, the items on this page are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fCDriver\fR"
Sets the printer type to be used, selecting this item creates a drop down list
of  available  printer  drivers.  The drivers  inform  \*(mS which fonts and
colors are available and how to enable/disable them, these are usually special
character sequences. The following special drivers are defined:-
.RS
.IP "Default Plain Text"
This  driver  does not use any special  character  sequences  so the output it
produces  is plain  text. This  should  work with most  printers,  but it does
not support any colors or fonts.
.IP "HTML"
This is a virtual printer driver as no printer uses HTML directly. However the
files produced by this driver can be loaded by a web-browser and rendered with
full color and font  support so provides an efficient  way of testing  printer
schemes. In addition  may be used to convert the text  rendered in  MicroEmacs
into HTML content.
.IP "Windows"
This utilizes \*(mS's built-in Windows printer  interface  (Windows  platforms
only). When selected \*(mS communicates directly to the MS Printer Manager.
.RE
.IP "\fCPrint Scheme\fR"
Defines the color and font scheme to be used,  selecting  this item  creates a
drop down list of available  printer schemes - choose the most appropriate one
for your printer. The \fIDefault  Plain Text\fR  scheme does not use any color
or  fonts  and  should  work for all  drivers.  See the next  item for  scheme
creation and editing.
.IP "\fCEdit\fR"
Opens the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
dialog box to edit the currently  selected  printer  scheme. The editor may be
used to create and install new printer schemes.
.IP "\fCDestination\fR"
Specifies the destination print output, when selected a drop down menu appears
with the following items:
.RS
.IP "To buffer only"
Creates a "\fC*printer*\fR" buffer and prints to that buffer.
.IP "To file only"
Creates a new temporary file and prints to it.
.IP "To file & print"
Prints to a temporary file and then executes the \fCcommand-line\fR  (see next
item) to print the resultant file. This option is not available when using the
Windows printer driver.
.IP "Direct to printer"
Output is sent  directly to the  printer.  The option is only  available  when
using the Windows driver.
.RE
.IP "\fCCommand-line\fR"
Sets the  command-line  required to print a generated  print file  (option not
available  when the  Windows  driver is  selected  as  printing  is  performed
directly by the MS Print Manager). The  command-line  should be a single shell
command using "\fC%f\fR" to reference the name of the file to be printed, e.g.
on \s-1UNIX\s0 systems
.Hr lp 1
or
.Hr lpr 1
may be used as follows:-
.RS
.CS
lp -s %f
.CE
On MS-DOS  machines this may be performed by copying the file to the \fCPRN\fR
device, as follows:
.CS
copy %f PRN
.CE 0
.RE
.IP "\fCPage Layout\fR"
Displays the current page configuration in the form:
.RS
.IP
\fIColumns\fR\fBx\fR\fIRows\fR \fIChars-Wide\fR\fBx\fR\fIChars-High\fR
.PP
the fields cannot be edited  directly, the settings in \fBPage Setup\fR affect
these values.
.RE
.SS "Page Setup"
.IP "\fCPaper Size\fR"
Defines the size of the printer paper, selecting this item produces a pop down
menu listing of all available  paper sizes. If the the Windows  printer driver
is being used this field cannot be selected and the \fBEdit\fR  button is used
instead.
.IP "\fCPage Size\fR"
Defines the  printable  size of the page in terms of the number of  characters
which will fit on the paper  (\fIwidth\fR\fBx\fR\fIheight\fR). When selected a
drop down menu lists all  available  sizes for the  current  paper  size. This
option is not  available  with the Windows  driver and the  \fBEdit\fR  button
should be used.
.IP "\fCEdit\fR (Windows only)"
Opens a Windows  printer  dialog box  allowing the user to specify the windows
printer, paper size and character size, etc.
.IP "\fCNo. of Columns\fR and \fCRows\fR"
Defines  the  page  subdivision  in terms of  sub-columns  and  rows,  thereby
creating sub-pages within a page.
.IP "\fCPrint Line Numbers\fR"
When enabled, prints the line number at the left hand edge of each line.
.IP "\fCPrint Split Line IDs\fR"
When  enabled  the last right hand text  column is  reserved  for a split line
identifier.  Whenever  a line is too long to fit on a single  line it is split
over two or more lines, if this  option is enabled  the right edge will be set
to the split  character  (usually a '\fC\\\fR' char) to clearly  indicate that
the line is split.
.IP "\fCPage Layout\fR"
As with  the  \fBPrinter\fR  \fBPage  Layout\fR,  displays  the  current  page
configuration, the field cannot be edited.
.SS "Layout"
.IP "\fCMargins\fR"
Configures  the top,  bottom,  left and right  margins of the page in terms of
characters.
.IP "\fCPrint Header\fR"
Defines  whether a header  should be printed  and its  format.  The  following
escape sequence is interpreted:
.RS
.IP "\fC%%\fR"
Print a '\fC%\fR' character.
.IP "\fC%b\fR"
Print the current buffer's name.
.IP "\fC%D\fR"
Print the current day of the month.
.IP "\fC%f\fR"
Print the current buffer's file name.
.IP "\fC%h\fR"
Print the current hour.
.IP "\fC%M\fR"
Print the current month of the year.
.IP "\fC%m\fR"
Print the current minute of the hour.
.IP "\fC%p\fR"
Print the current page number.
.IP "\fC%s\fR"
Print the current seconds.
.IP "\fC%Y\fR"
Print the current year as a 2 digit number.
.IP "\fC%y\fR"
Print the current year as a 4 digit number.
.RE
.IP "\fCPrint Footer\fR"
Defines  whether  a footer  should be  printed  at the end of the page and the
format. The header escape sequence characters are used.
.SH NOTES
\fBprint-setup\fR is a macro using
.Ht osd 2 ,
defined in \fCprintstp.emf\fR.
.PP
The list of available printer drivers and print schemes is stored in the macro
file  \fCprinters.emf\fR.  To create a new printer driver a new  configuration
registry file  (\fCerf\fR  file - see  \fCprint*.erf\fR  for examples) must be
created and added to the printer driver lists within \fCprinter.emf\fR.
.PP
The  \fCprinters.emf\fR  file also contains a list of printing  schemes, using
the \fBInstall\fR option of the
.Ht scheme-editor 3 .
.Ht scheme-editor 3
automatically adds the new scheme to the print schemes list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht print-buffer 2 ,
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht osd 2 .
.ad
.FH
