.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3osd005.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Feb 1 20:28:17 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <001022.1555>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd005.3,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:29:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH scheme-editor 3
.XI scheme-editor - "Color Scheme Editor"
.SH NAME
scheme-editor \- Color Scheme Editor
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B scheme-editor
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBscheme-editor\fR  is a color and font scheme  editor that provides a dialog
interface to configure the display schemes used by the editor. The schemes may
be created or  modified  within the scheme  editor and then  committed  to the
configuration files for general use.
.PP
The editor can be used to create both screen and printer  color/font  schemes,
they are typically  stored in the  \fCmacros\fR  directory and are executed as
macro files at start up or when  printing.  The  standard  screen  schemes are
called       \fCscheme\fR\|\fIX\fR\|\fC.emf\fR      and      printer      ones
\fCprint\fR\|\fIX\fR\|\fC.emf\fR.
.PP
The   \fBscheme-editor\fR  is  displayed  within  a  single  dialog  box,  tab
selections at the top of the dialog box enable  \fBcolor\fR  and  \fBscheme\fR
creation  and/or  modification.  Navigation is typically  performed  using the
mouse,  where the mouse is absent then the  \fCTAB\fR  key may be used to move
between the fields. The information presented is defined as follows:-
.IP "\fBFile Name\fR"
The  name  of the  color  scheme  to be  modified.  This  is the  name  of the
\fBscheme\fR\|\fIX\fR\|\fB.emf\fR  file, omitting the file  extension. See the
\fBFILES\fR  section  below for a list of standard  screen and printer  scheme
supplied with \*(mE.
.IP "\fBType\fR"
Defines whether the scheme is a screen or printer type.
.IP "\fBDescription\fR"
An ASCII description of the color scheme, used to identify the color scheme.
.IP "\fBBuffer Hilight\fR"
Available  when scheme is a screen type.  Defines  whether  buffer  hilighting
should be enabled, when  \fICompletely  Disable\fR  all buffers are  displayed
character for character in the standard text scheme, this will ensure  maximum
update  performance but some file formats such as the on-line help will become
unreadable so this option is really selected.  Similarly  \fIReformat  Only\fR
disables  the  majority of buffers,  hilighting  is only enabled when the file
would be  unreadable  without it, such as the on-line  help or man page files.
The default \fIFully Enabled\fR setting enables all buffer hilighting.
.IP "\fBPrint Option\fR"
Available  when scheme is a printer type. Defines what  components of a scheme
is to be used when printing.
.SS Colors
The  \fBcolors\fR  tab  allows  the basic  palette  colors of the editor to be
created and modified. The  left-hand  side of the dialog  contains a scrolling
window  containing  the existing  color  entries. The  right-hand  side of the
dialog  provides  the  controls  to add and change the color  assignment.  The
controls operate on the currently selected palette entry.
.IP \fBAdd\fR
Creates and adds a new color entry into the palette. The new palette  entry is
created with a default color that may be subsequently modified.
.IP \fBChange\fR
Commits the current selection color to the palette.
.IP "\fBRed\fR/\fBGreen\fR/\fBBlue\fR"
The color  entries  allow the  currently  selected  palette  color entry to be
modified. The color values may be changed by direct  numeric entry (0..255) or
via the ^/v  controls;  the  color  is  committed  to the  palette  using  the
\fBAdd\fR or \fBChange\fR button.
.SS Schemes
The  \fBschemes\fR  tab allows the schemes to be edited. The left-hand side of
the dialog contains a scrolling window of the available color palette (created
from the  \fBColors\fR  tab). The  right-hand  side of the  window  shows  the
variants of the scheme.
.IP "\fBSelection\fR"
The  \fBselection\fR  item provides a pull-down menu  containing  gross scheme
categories used by the editor.
.IP \fBScheme\fR
A pull-down menu containing the schemes of the selection, modifying this entry
shows  the  variants  of  the  scheme  in  the  \fBNormal\fR,   \fBCurrent\fR,
\fBSelect\fR and \fBSel-Cur\fR dialogs.
.LP
There are 4 variants, or styles, for a single  scheme; each style is comprised
of a  foreground  and  background  color,  and  a  row  of  toggle  button  to
enable/disable fonts, defined as follows.
.IP
\fCB\fR \- Bold.
.br
\fCI\fR \- Italic.
.br
\fCL\fR \- Light (typically not supported).
.br
\fCR\fR \- Reverse video (fore/back-ground swapped).
.br
\fCU\fR \- Underline.
.br
\fCV\fR \- Toggle reverse video when inverted.
.LP
The last mode \fBV\fR needs a little more explanation;  commands such
as
.Ht screen-poke 2
are  able to  invert  the  color  scheme,  i.e.  use the  fore  color  for the
background  etc.  Enabling  this  mode will  toggle  the  reverse  video  mode
(\fBR\fR) when this feature is used.
.LP
The style displayed by a particular scheme depends upon the  selection/current
status of the text:
.IP \fBNormal\fR
The normal style, when the text object is not selected or current (i.e. out of
focus).
.IP \fBCurrent\fR
The style used when the text object is current (i.e. in focus)
.IP \fBSelect\fR
The style used when the text object is selected (i.e. by the mouse) and is not
current.
.IP \fBSel-Cur\fR
The style used when the text object is selected and is current.
.PP
Note that a printer scheme only uses the Normal style.
.PP
Setting of the  \fBselection\fR  and \fBscheme\fR  shows the current scheme in
the \fBNormal\fR,  \fBCurrent\fR,  \fBSelect\fR and \fBSel-Cur\fR dialogs. New
colors are  assigned  by  selecting a color in the palette  area and making it
current. The current color is applied by selecting the \fBFore\fR / \fBBack\fR
boxes of the scheme dialog. The assigned color is displayed in the text box
.IR "The big brown fox..." .
.SS Controls
The controls at the bottom of the dialog apply the edits to the  configuration
files.
.IP \fBCurrent\fR
Makes the changes to the palette and schemes  current, they are applied to the
current editing session but are not committed to file. This allows the palette
changes to be used prior to commitment. Note that all  modifications  are lost
if they are not saved and the editing session is terminated.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves  the  scheme  modifications  to file,  effectively  making  the  changes
permanent.  Note however that the scheme macro file will be saved in the first
directory in the
.Ht $search-path 5 ,
regardless of the location of the original. For network systems this typically
means that the changes will only effect the current user.
.IP \fBInstall\fR
Installs the current  color scheme into the  configuration  files,  making the
color scheme accessible to the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Quits the scheme editor without modifying the settings.
.SH FILES
\fCscheme.emf\fR  \- Defines the  standard  scheme  variables,  including  the
available scheme list, and associated text.
.br
\fCschemed.emf\fR \- Default white on black color scheme.
.br
\fCschemej.emf\fR \- Black on cream color scheme.
.br
\fCschemevi\fR \- Sandy shores.
.br
\fCschemesf\fR \- Sherwood Forest.
.br
\fCschemebh\fR \- Blue Hue.
.br
\fCschemepd\fR \- Plain Black on Cream.
.br
\fCschemepl\fR \- Plain White on Black.
.br
\fCschemel\fR \- Black on grey.
.br
\fCschememd\fR \- Microsoft Developer Studio Colors.
.br
\fCprinters.emf\fR  \- Defines the  list of available printer schemes and drivers.
.br
\fCprintd\fR \- Default plain print-out.
.br
\fCprintf\fR \- Print using fonts.
.br
\fCprintepc\fR \- Print using Epson base colors and fonts.
.SH NOTES
\fBscheme-editor\fR is a macro that is implemented in file \fCschemosd.emf\fR.
The scheme editor uses
.Ht osd 2
to create and manage the dialogs.
.PP
Only the Normal scheme style is used by printer schemes.
.PP
The setting of \fBBuffer  Hilight\fR  can effect the way buffer hooks are load
so changing from one scheme to another with differing  Buffer Hilight settings
may not fully work. This can be rectified by restart \*(mS with the new scheme
as default.
.PP
The current  screen  scheme can effect the  printing  due to the  \fBBuffer\fR
\fBHilight\fR  setting, e.g. if the screen scheme is set to completely disable
hilighting then any print-out will also have no hilighting.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht add-color-scheme 2 ,
.Ht print-scheme 2 ,
.Ht osd 2 .
.ad
.FH
