.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil011.4,v 2.7 2022/06/12 19:05:26 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;directive|miscellaneousOperators
.so me.tni
.TH !while 4
.XI !while - "Conditional loop start"
.XI !repeat - "Unconditional loop start"
.XI !break - "Exit loop"
.XI !continue - "Restart loop"
.XI !done - "Unconditional loop end"
.XI !until - "Conditional loop end"
.SH NAME
!while, !repeat, !break, !continue, !done, !until \- loop
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
< \fB!while\fR \fIcondition\fR | \fB!repeat\fR >
.RS
\&... loop body ...
[ \fB!continue\fR | \fB!break\fR ]
.RE
\&... loop body ...
< \fB!done\fR | \fB!until\fR \fIcondition\fR >
.fi
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The six loop  directives can be mixed and matched as required, a loop must have one of the start loop directive and an
end loop directive; it can optionally have as many \fB!break\fR and \fB!continue\fR directives as needed.
.PP
The \fB!repeat\fR  directive always executes the loop contents; whereas the \fB!while\fR  directive allows  statements
within the loop to be executed only if the given  \fIcondition\fR  is \fCTRUE\fR, if the condition is \fCFALSE\fR then
execution  is  continued on the line after the loop end  statement  (\fB!done\fR  or  \fB!until\fR).
.PP
The  \fB!done\fR directive always returns control back to the loop start directive  (\fB!while\fR or \fB!repeat\fR  statement), whereas
\fB!until\fR only loops back to the start if the given \fIcondition\fR is \fCFALSE\fR, exiting the loop otherwise.
.PP
A \fB!continue\fR may be used in the loop, this immediately returns control to
the loop start line (\fB!while\fR or \fB!repeat\fR statement), skipping the rest of the loop content and end statement
(including any \fB!until\fR condition). A \fB!break\fR can be used to exit a loop, execution resumes on the line after
the end loop statement.
.PP
Up to six loops can be nested  within a single  function/executed  buffer at any one time. If more are required then a
sub function could be defined and called or the
.Ht !goto 4 
and
.Ht !jump 4 
directives could be used in conjunction with the
.Ht !if 4
statement to construct loops.
.SH EXAMPLE
For example, the following macro segment fills to the fill column with spaces.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!while &less $curcol $buffer-fill-col
    insert-string " "
    !if &equal %example "1"     ; Silly to show continue
        !continue               ; Goto !while
    !elif &equal %example "2"   ; Silly to show continue
        !break                  ; Goto line after !done
    !endif
    ml-write "You wont see me if %example = 1 or 2"
!done
ml-write "LoopA has exited"

set-variable #l1 10
!repeat
    10 ml-write &spr "LoopB: %d" #l1
!until &les &dec #l1 1 1
100 ml-write &spr "LoopB end: #l1 should = 0 : %d" #l1

set-variable #l1 10
!repeat
  10 ml-write &spr "LoopC: %d" #l1
  !iif &les &dec #l1 1 1 !break
!done
100 ml-write &spr "LoopC end: #l1 should = 0 : %d" #l1
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht !if 4 ,
.Ht !goto 4 ,
.Ht !jump 4 .
.ad
.FH
