.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m4fil007.4,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:10:36 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;directive|miscellaneousOperators
.so me.tni
.TH !force 4
.XI !force - "Ignore command or macro status"
.SH NAME
!force \- Ignore command or macro status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B !force
[\fIn\fR]
.I command
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B !force
ignores the return  status of a  \fIcommand\fR  while  executing a macro. When
\*(mE  executes a macro, if any command fails, the macro is terminated at that
point. If a line is preceded by a \fB!force\fR  directive, execution continues
whether the command succeeds or not.
.Ht $status 5
may be used following \fB!force\fR to determine if the command failed or not.
.PP
A double \fB!force\fR can be used to catch a user termination (via the
.Ht abort-command 2
bound to  \fCC-g\fR). A macro  command  aborted by the user will be terminated
even with a single !force directive, but not with two. See the example below.
.PP
When specifying a numerical  argument with a \fIcommand\fR, it is placed after
the \fI!force\fR directive and before the \fIcommand\fR i.e.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!force 1 forward-char
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows how \fB!force\fR is used in conjunction with
\fB$status\fR.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
;	Merge the top two windows

push-position           ;remember where we are
1 next-window           ;go to the top window
delete-window           ;merge it with the second window
!force pop-position     ;This will continue regardless
!if $status
    ml-write "Call PASSED"
!else
    ml-write "Call FAILED"
!endif
.CE
The following  example creates an infinite loop that can only be broken out of
by a user abort. The calling macro catches this by using a double \fB!force\fR
and  continues.  This  concept is used by commands  which take a  considerable
amount  of  time  yet  cannot  be  simply  aborted  by the  user  such  as the
spell-checker's best guess list generator.
.CS
define-macro infinite-loop
    set-variable #l0 1
    !while 1
        ml-write &cat "In loop, C-g to exit: " &pinc #l0 1
    !done
!emacro

define-macro catch-abort
    !force !force infinite-loop
    ml-write "You will see this"
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $status 5 .
.ad
.FH
