.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil002.4,v 2.6 2005-09-19 19:27:20 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;function;string
.so me.tni
.TH &cat 4
.XI &cat - "Concatenate two strings together"
.XI &left - "Return the left most characters from a string"
.XI &right - "Return the right most characters from a string"
.XI &mid - "Return a portion (middle) of a string"
.XI &len - "Return the length of a string"
.XI &slower - "Return the string converted to lower case"
.XI &supper - "Return the string converted to upper case"
.XI &trboth - "Return string trimmed of white chars on both sides"
.XI &trleft - "Return string trimmed of white chars on left side"
.XI &trright - "Return string trimmed of white chars on right side"
.SH NAME
&cat, &lef, &rig, &mid, &len, &slo, &trb \- String macro operators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B &cat
.I str1
.I str2
.br
.B &lef
.I str
.I len
.br
.B &right
.I str
.I index
.br
.B &mid
.I str
.I index
.I len
.sp
.B &len
.I str
.sp
.B &slower
.I str
.br
.B &supper
.I str
.sp
.B &trboth
.I str
.br
.B &trleft
.I str
.br
.B &trright
.I str
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  string  operators  operate  on  character  strings  (\fB%\fR  or  \fB$\fR
variables), performing general string manipulation, returning a string result.
.PP
The operators may all be abbreviated to their three letter  abbreviation (i.e.
\fB&right\fR  may be expressed as \fB&rig\fR). In all cases the first argument
is completely evaluated before the second argument.
.IP "\fB&cat\fR \fIstr1\fR \fIstr2\fR"
Concatenate  two string  \fIstr1\fR with \fIstr2\fR to form a new string. i.e.
\fIstr1str2\fR
.IP "\fB&lef\fR \fIstr\fR \fIlen\fR"
Return  \fIlen\fR  leftmost  characters from \fIstr\fR. If \fIstr\fR length is
shorter than \fIlen\fR then the string itself is returned. A \fIlen\fR of zero
returns the empty string.
.IP "\fB&rig\fR \fIstr\fR \fIindex\fR"
Returns the rightmost  characters of string \fIstr\fR from index  \fIindex\fR.
This function causes some confusion,  consider \fB&lef\fR and \fB&rig\fR to be
the string equivalents of their integer counterparts
.Hl &div &divide 4
and
.Hl &mod &mod 4 ;
\fB&rig\fR  returns  the  remainder  of the  equivalent  \fB&lef\fR  function.
Invocation with \fIindex\fR set to zero returns \fIstr\fR.
.IP "\fB&mid\fR \fIstr\fR \fIindex\fR \fIlen\fR"
Extracts a sub-string from string \fIstr\fR, starting at position  \fIindex\fR
of length \fIlen\fR.
.IP "\fB&len\fR \fIstr\fR"
Returns the integer length of the string (number of characters).
.IP "\fB&slower\fR \fIstr\fR"
Returns  the given  string with all upper case  characters  converted to lower
case.
.IP "\fB&supper\fR \fIstr\fR"
Returns  the given  string with all lower case  characters  converted to upper
case.
.IP "\fB&trboth\fR \fIstr\fR"
Returns the given string trimmed of white spaces (i.e. '\fC \fR', '\fC\\t\fR',
\&'\fC\\r\fR',  '\fC\\n\fR', '\fC\\Cl\fR' and '\fC\\Ck\fR') from both sides of
the string.
.IP "\fB&trleft\fR \fIstr\fR"
Returns  the given  string  trimmed of white  spaces from the left side of the
string only.
.IP "\fB&trright\fR \fIstr\fR"
Returns the given string  trimmed of white spaces from the right side, or end,
of the string only.
.LP
Evaluation  of the  strings is left to right, the  leftmost  argument is fully
evaluated  before the next argument. The operator  ordering is prefix notation
(see
.Ht &add 4
for an example of prefix ordering).
.SH EXAMPLE
Concatenate two strings \fCabc\fR and \fCdef\fR together:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %result &cat "abc" "def"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
To concatenate three strings \fCabc\fR, \fCdef\fR \fCghi\fR together:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %result &cat "abc" &cat "def" "ghi"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
or, a slightly different ordering:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %result &cat &cat "abc" "def" "ghi"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Retrieve the leftmost  character of a string  variable, modify the variable to
contain the remainder.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %foo "abcdef"
set-variable %c   &lef %foo 1
set-variable %foo &rig %foo 1
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Where \fC%c\fR = "\fCa\fR"; \fC%foo\fR = "\fCbcdef\fR" following evaluation.
.PP
To retrieve the  characters  \fCcde\fR  into variable  \fC%result\fR  from the
string "\fCabcdef\fR" use:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %result &mid "abcdef" 2 3
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
To retrieve the rightmost character from the string:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %foo "abcdef"
set-variable %result &rig %foo &sub &len %foo 1
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
or the same result could be achieved using \fB&mid\fR:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %result &mid %foo &sub &len %foo 1 1
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
To get an input  string from the user which is free of spaces at the start and
end:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %result &trb @ml "Enter string"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The original \fBMicroEMACS\fR  "\fB&rig\fR \fIstr\fR \fIn\fR" function returns
the last \fIn\fR  characters  from the string  \fIstr\fR this differs from the
definition of \fB&rig\fR in this implementation. As most string  decomposition
is performed  left to right, and to make  \fB&lef\fR and \fB&rig\fR complement
each other, the indexing of the function has been modified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Variable Functions" Functions - ,
.Ht &sin 4 ,
.Ht &sequal 4 ,
.Ht &lget 4 ,
.Ht &sprintf 4 .
.ad
.FH
