.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil035.4,v 1.4 2009-08-29 17:14:14 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;function;miscellaneous
.so me.tni
.TH &opt 4
.XI &opt - "\*(mS optional feature test"
.SH NAME
&opt \- \*(mS optional feature test
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B &opt
.I str
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
This  function can be used to test the  availability  of optional  features in
the current  session of \*(mS. Some features, like spelling  checker  support,
are a  compilation  option,  other  options  like  mouse  support  may also be
unavailable on some  platforms. The \fB&opt\fR  function can be used by macros
to check that required base functionality is available.
.PP
The function  returns  \fC1\fR in the given feature  "\fIstr\fR" is supported,
otherwise it returns \fC0\fR if the feature is unknown or not supported in the
running version.
.SH NOTES
Optional  components  of \*(mE are  enabled/disabled  at  compile  time,  most
options are  configured  by  \fCMEOPT_\fR\fI<NAME>\fR  \fC#define\fR's  within
the source file \fCemain.h\fR. Following is a complete list of options, giving
the \fBopt\fR string and \fC#define\fR label:
.IP "abb - MEOPT_ABBREV"
Abbreviation functionality (see
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ).
.IP "cal - MEOPT_CALLBACK"
Callback and idle event handling (see
.Ht create-callback 2 ).
.IP "fen - MEOPT_FENCE"
Fence matching (see
.Ht fence 2m ).
.IP "cli - MEOPT_CLIENTSERVER"
Client/server support (see
.Hl Client-Server Client-Server 2 ).
.IP "col - MEOPT_COLOR"
All color support (making hilighting redundent etc, see
.Ht add-color 2 ).
.IP "cry - MEOPT_CRYPT"
File encryption (see
.Ht crypt 2m
mode).
.IP "deb - MEOPT_DEBUGM"
Macro debugging (see
.Ht $debug 5 ).
.IP "dir - MEOPT_DIRLIST"
Directory listing when loading a directory (see
.Ht file-browser 3
and
.Ht dir 2m
mode ).
.IP "ext - MEOPT_EXTENDED"
Miscellaneous more advanced commands and features such as
.Ht append-buffer 2 .
.IP "fho - MEOPT_FILEHOOK"
File type auto-detection and configuration (see
.Ht add-file-hook 2 ).
.IP "fra - MEOPT_FRAME"
Multiple frames (Internal or external, see opt "\fBmwf\fR" and command
.Ht create-frame 2 ).
.IP "has - MEOPT_CMDHASH"
Use a hash table for rapid command name lookup.
.IP "hil - MEOPT_HILIGHT"
Hilight and user definable indentation rules (see
.Ht hilight 2
and
.Ht indent 2 ). 
.IP "hsp - MEOPT_HSPLIT"
Horizontal window splitting (see
.Ht split-window-horizontally 2 ).
.IP "ipi - MEOPT_IPIPES"
Interactive pipes (see
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ).
.IP "ise - MEOPT_ISEARCH"
Incremental search (see
.Ht isearch-forward 2 ).
.IP "lbi - MEOPT_LOCALBIND"
Buffer, message-line and OSD local binding overrides (see
.Ht buffer-bind-key 2 ).
.IP "mag - MEOPT_MAGIC"
Regular expression search engine (see
.Ht magic 2m
mode).
.IP "mou - MEOPT_MOUSE"
Mouse support (see
.Ht $mouse 5 ).
.IP "mwf - MEOPT_MWFRAME"
Multiple window frame support (see opt "\fBfra\fR").
.IP "nar - MEOPT_NARROW"
Buffer narrowing (see
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 ).
.IP "nex - MEOPT_FILENEXT"
Location list stepping (see
.Ht get-next-line 2 ).
.IP "osd - MEOPT_OSD"
On Screen Display GUI support (see
.Ht osd 2 ).
.IP "pok - MEOPT_POKE"
Direct screen poking (see
.Ht screen-poke 2 ).
.IP "pos - MEOPT_POSITION"
Position storing and returning (see
.Ht set-position 2 ).
.IP "pri - MEOPT_PRINT"
Printing support (see
.Ht print-buffer 2 ).
.IP "rcs - MEOPT_RCS"
File Revision Control Support (see
.Ht $rcs-co-com 5 ).
.IP "reg - MEOPT_REGISTRY"
Internal registry and history support (see
.Ht read-registry 2 ).
.IP "scr - MEOPT_SCROLL"
Window scroll-bar support.
.IP "soc - MEOPT_SOCKET"
URL support, FTP and HTTP via sockets (see
.Ht find-file 2 ).
.IP "spa - MEOPT_SPAWN"
External process launching (see
.Ht shell-command 2 ).
.IP "spe - MEOPT_SPELL"
Spelling checker support (see
.Ht spell 2 ).
.IP "tag - MEOPT_TAGS"
Tags support (see
.Ht find-tag 2 ).
.IP "tim - MEOPT_TIMSTMP"
File timestamping on save (see
.Ht time 2m
mode).
.IP "typ - MEOPT_TYPEAH"
Input detect or 'type-ahead' for background processing support.
.IP "und - MEOPT_UNDO"
Undo support (see
.Ht undo 2 ).
.IP "wor - MEOPT_WORDPRO"
Word-processor style commands like
.Ht fill-paragraph 2
(see
.Ht forward-paragraph 2 ).
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example  checks for URL support and if not available it pops up
an error:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!if &not &opt "soc"
    osd-dialog "Opt Test" "Error: No URL support!" "  &OK  "
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Building \*(mS" Build 2 .
.ad
.FH
