.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil027.4,v 2.10 2023/02/02 01:23:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;function;miscellaneous
.so me.tni
.TH &stat 4
.XI &stat - "Retrieve a file statistic"
.SH NAME
&stat \- Retrieve a file statistic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B &stat
.I <stat>
.I <filename>
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B &stat
returns  the  specified  \fI<stat>\fR  on the  given  \fI<filename>\fR.  Valid
\fI<stat>\fR values are:-
.IP \fBa\fR
Returns the absolute file name, corrects  relative paths and symbolic  links, i.e. on \s-1UNIX\s0 if the filename is a
symbolic link it returns the file name the link points to (recursive), otherwise returns the file name.
.IP \fBd\fR
Returns the file's  modification time stamp as an integer, larger values indicate a later time.
.IP \fBi\fR
Returns information on the file in a
.Hl "\*(mS list" &lset 4
formatted string. The fields within the list are defined as follows:
.RS
.IP 1
File  location, which will be one of the following:
.CS
    F   File is an ftp URL file (see note).
    H   File is a http URL link (see note).
    L   File is a local file (may be prefixed with 'file:').
    T   File is a tfs file (tfs://...).
.CE 0
.IP 2
File type, which will be one of the following:
.CS
    D   File is a directory.
    H   File is a http URL link (no further information is known).
    L   File is a symbolic link (UNIX).
    N   File is an untouchable system file.
    R   File is a regular file.
    X   File does not exist.
.CE 0
.IP
Note the information returned here is different to the '\fCt\fR' flag below as
the type of an ftp file is evaluated, i.e. \fCD\fR, \fCR\fR or \fCX\fR will be
returned.
.IP 3
Symbolic  file type, which will be the empty string unless the file type above
is '\fCL\fR' in which case it will be one of the following:
.CS
    D   File is a directory.
    N   File is an untouchable system file.
    R   File is a regular file.
    X   File does not exist.
.CE 0
.IP 4
File permissions or attributes which are returned as an integer value specific
to the Operating System.
.IP "5 and 6"
File size given as an upper and lower 32 bit integers for large file  support,
these  values  will  be  the  empty  string  if the  file  size  could  not be
determined.
.IP 7
File modification time given as "\fCYYYYMMDDhhmmss\fR",  this field has not yet been
implemented.
.RE
.IP \fBm\fR
Returns  the  file's  modification  time stamp as a string,  the format of the
string is the same as
.Ht $time 5 .
.IP \fBr\fR
Returns a non-zero value if the user has permission to read the given file.
.IP \fBs\fR
Returns the size of the file in bytes.
.IP \fBt\fR
Returns the type of the file, where values returned are
.CS
    X   File does not exist.
    R   File is a regular file.
    D   File is a directory.
    H   File is a http URL link (see note).
    F   File is an ftp URL file (see note).
    N   File is an untouchable system file.
.CE 0
.IP \fBw\fR
Returns a non-zero  value if the user has permission to write to the given file. Note that \fC0\fR is simply  returned
for ftp URLs whereas the user may have write permission depending on the server and login credentials supplied.
.IP \fBx\fR
Returns a non-zero value if the user has permission to execute the given file.
.SH NOTES
The URL type is determined  from the start of the file name, e.g.  http://...,  and
its existence is never verified if a http, nor for an ftp URL except for an \fBi\fR stat.
.PP
The following URL types are supported depending on the build of \*(mS:
.CS
    file:     Local file.
    ftp://    Standard ftp URL (default port 21).
    ftpe://   Explicit secure ftp (default port 21).
    ftps://   Implicit secure ftp (default port 990).
    http://   Standard http URL (default port 80).
    https://  Secure http URL (default port 443).
    tfs://    Tacked-on file system URL.
.CE 0
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example is a macro which, given a file name, uses  \fB&stat\fR
to check that file file is regular:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro test-file
    !force set-variable #l0 @1
    !if &not $status
        set-variable #l0 @ml04 "File name"
    !endif
    !if &not &equ &stat "t" #l4 1
        ml-write &spr "[%s is not a regular file]" #l0
        !abort
    !endif
!emacro

test-file "foobar"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The  macro  can be passed a file name and  aborts if the file is not  regular,
there by  returning  the state.
.PP
The  follow  example  checks  that  a file  is not  empty,  this  is  used  by
\fBmail-check\fR to test for any incoming mail.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
    !if &gre &stat "s" %incoming-mail-box
        ml-write "[You have new mail]"
    !endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Variable Functions" Functions - ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht &bstat 4 .
.ad
.FH
