.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil036.4,v 1.5 2009/08/29 17:14:14 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;variable
.so me.tni
.TH "HistoryGroupVariables" 4
.XI "HistoryGroupVariables" - "Last history values"
.XI "@h0" - "General history string"
.XI "@h1" - "Buffer history string"
.XI "@h2" - "Command history string"
.XI "@h3" - "File history string"
.XI "@h4" - "Search history string"
.SH NAME
@h0, @h1, @h2, ... @h4 \- History Group Variables.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.na
\fB@h0\fR \fIindex\fR \- General history string
\fB@h1\fR \fIindex\fR \- Buffer history string
\fB@h2\fR \fIindex\fR \- Command history string
\fB@h3\fR \fIindex\fR \- File history string
\fB@h4\fR \fIindex\fR \- Search history string
.fi
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The history group variables  \fB@h\fR\|\fIn\fR  \fIindex\fR return the strings
in the history  buffer ad a given  \fIindex\fR.  There are 5 history  buffers,
\fIn\fR, as follows:-
.PP
\fC0\fR \- General history string
.br
\fC1\fR \- Buffer history string
.br
\fC2\fR \- Command history string
.br
\fC3\fR \- File history string
.br
\fC4\fR \- Search history string
.PP
Each history buffer  contains 20 slots which contain the history  information.
The history  slot is selected  with the  \fIindex\fR  argument  which is valid
in the range \fC0..19\fR,  index \fC0\fR is the
most recent history slot in the history group.
.PP
The history  slots are  automatically  modified on the entry of a new command,
search string etc.
.PP
\fB@h\fR\|\fIn\fR  \fIindex\fR  returns the whole of the history  string for a
given slot.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
An error is  generated  if an attempt is made to access  these  variables  and
history buffer identifier \fIn\fR or the \fIindex\fR is out of range.
.SH EXAMPLE
The last search history may be extracted as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable #l1 @h4 0
!force search-backward #l1
!if &not $status
    ; Not found
!else
    ; Found
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
\fB@h\fR\|\fIn\fR was first introduced in the January 2004 release.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht read-session 3 ,
.Ht save-session 3 .
.ad
.FH
