.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var082.5,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|buffer|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-backup 5
.XI $buffer-backup - "Buffer backup file name"
.XI $MEBACKUPPATH - "Backup file location"
.XI $MEBACKUPSUB - "Backup file name modifier"
.SH NAME
$buffer-backup \- Buffer backup file name
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $buffer-backup
.I FileName
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $buffer-backup
is  automatically  set to the file name the  current  buffer's  file  would be
backed up to if required. If the current  buffer has no file name the variable
will be set to "".
.PP
The value depends on whether DOS compliant file names are being used (see
.Ht $system 5 ),
whether multiple backups are being kept (see
.Ht $kept-versions 5 )
and  the  setting  of  the  environment  variables   \fB$MEBACKUPPATH\fR   and
\fB$MEBACKUPSUB\fR.  The variable does not take into consideration the current
setting of the buffer's
.Ht backup 2m
mode which determine whether a backup will be made.
.PP
The  environment  variable  \fB$MEBACKUPPATH\fR  can be  used  to  change  the
location  of the  backup  files,  it can also be used to  prepend  the  backup
filename with a string. \fB$MEBACKUPPATH\fR can specify an absolute path (e.g.
"\fCc:/temp/mebackup/\fR")  or a relative path (e.g.  "\fCmebackup/\fR"  which
will move all backup  files into a  sub-directory  automatically  in the files
directory).
.PP
The trailing  '\fC/\fR' is important as the file name is simple appended, i.e.
is  creating  a  backup  for  "c:/foo/bar.txt"  and  $MEBACKUPPATH  is set the
"backup" the backup file name will be "c:/foo/backupbar.txt".
.PP
The environment variable  \fB$MEBACKUPSUB\fR can be used to substitute strings
within the backup filename for another. The format of the value is a list of
.Hr sed 1
string substitutions, i.e.
.CS
$MEBACKUPSUB="s/from1/to1/ s/from2/to2/ s/fr..."
.CE
The 3 divide  characters  do not have to be '/'s, they can be any character as
long as they are the same, e.g.  "sXfrom1Xto1X".  When define \*(mS performs a
simple search for string  "\fCfrom1\fR"  (i.e. no regex  support) and replaces
any match with the string "\fCto1\fR" etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example  compares the  differences  between the current version
and the bucked up version using the
.Ht diff 3
macro. The \fBdiff-changes\fR macro is defined in \fCtools.emf\fR.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro diff-changes
    !if &seq $buffer-fname ""
        ml-write "[Current buffer has no file name]"
        !abort
    !endif
    !if &bmod "edit"
        !if &iseq @mc1 "Save buffer first [y/n]? " "nNyY" "y"
            save-buffer
        !endif
    !endif
    ; get the real file name - this only has effect on unix, copes with symbolic links
    set-variable #l0 &stat "a" $buffer-fname
    ; get the backup name
    set-variable #l1 $buffer-backup
    diff #l1 #l0
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The variable  \fB$buffer-backup\fR  can not be set, any attempt to set it will
result in an error.
.PP
On Windows and DOS  platforms if the $MEBACKUPPATH and $MEBACKUPSUB  variables
are used all remaining '\fC:\fR' characters are changed to '\fC/\fR's as these
are illegal in the middle of a filename.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht $system 5 ,
.Ht $kept-versions 5 .
.ad
.FH
