.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var025.5,v 1.3 2001-01-15 23:48:21 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|shell
.so me.tni
.TH %grep-com 5
.XI %grep-com - "Grep command line"
.SH NAME
%grep-com \- Grep command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC%grep-com\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fCgrep \fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets the command line used  to execute a
.Hr grep 1
system command.  The output of the 
.Ht grep 3 
execution should include  both file  and line  number information  so that the
command 
.Ht get-next-line 2 
can  be used properly.  This is not  defined by default
and the \fBgrep\fR command will not execute until it is defined.
.PP
.Hr grep 1
is typically  used with the \fB-n\fR  option which  produced line
numbering information which drives the 
.Ht get-next-line 2 
command.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows how the \fBgrep\fR strings are defined. 
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %grep-com "grep -n "
0 add-next-line "*grep*"
add-next-line "*grep*" "%f:%l:"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
This definition corresponds to a \fBgrep\fR output such as:-
.CS
m5var000.5:13:Sets the  number of seconds to wait 
m5var000.5:14:temporary file to t seconds. A 
m5var000.5:15:Note than the  temporary  
m5var000.5:17:saving a buffer.  Backup  files are
m5var000.5:24:On unlimited  length  file  name  systems
.CE
where \fBgrep\fR produces file and line number information for every match.
.PP
Use 
.Ht add-next-line 2
to define the line pattern produced by \fBgrep\fR. Some versions of \fBgrep\fR
place  the  file  name on a  single  line  matches  within  the file  occur on
subsequent lines. In this case additional  \fIadd-next-line\fR patterns may be
defined to cater for the \fBgrep\fR output as follows:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %grep-com "grep /n "
0 add-next-line "*grep*"
add-next-line "*grep*" "File: %f:"
add-next-line "*grep*" "%l:"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
This definition would be used with a \fBgrep\fR output such as:-
.CS
File:m5var000.5:
13:Sets the  number of seconds to wait 
14:temporary file to t seconds. A 
15:Note than the  temporary  
17:saving a buffer.  Backup  files are
24:On unlimited  length  file  name  systems
File:m5var001.5:
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
.Hr grep 1
is a standard utility on UNIX systems. For Windows 95/NT a version of GNU
.B grep 
may be found at:
.IP
.I "<ftp.winsite.com/ftp/pub/pc/winnt/misc/gnugrep.zip>"
.LP
For MS-DOS  users, a DJGPP port of \fBgrep\fR is also  available on the net. A
commercial version of \fBgrep\fR is also available from MKS.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-next-line 2 ,
.Hr grep 1 ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht add-next-line 2 .
.ad
.FH
