.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var057.5,v 2.6 2004-02-01 22:49:56 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $search-path 5
.XI $search-path - "\*(mS search path"
.SH NAME
$search-path \- MicroEmacs search path
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B $search-path
.I string
.sp
.I "[Microsoft Windows/MS-DOS]"
.br
.B $search-path
\fI<path1>\fR\|\fB;\fR\|\fI<path2>\fR\fB;\fR....\fB;\fR\|\fI<pathn>\fR
.sp
.I "[UNIX]"
.br
.B $search-path
\fI<path1>\fR\|\fB:\fR\|\fI<path2>\fR\fB:\fR....\fB:\fR\|\fI<pathn>\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $search-path
is  automatically  determined  by  \*(mS  when it  initializes.  The  variable
identifies  the directory  paths which are searched to locate editor  specific
files. The variable may contain  multiple  search paths each  separated by the
platform  path  separator  (semi-colon  ('\fB;\fR')  on  Microsoft  Windows or
\s-1MS-DOS\s0   environments   and  a   colon   ('\fB:\fR')   on   \s-1UNIX\s0
environments).  Where multiple search paths are defined then they are searched
in a left to right order.
.PP
.B $search-path
is  determined  at run-time and is fixed once the editor  starts. The value of
the search path is determined from a number of different sources in a platform
specific manner as follows:-
.BS
Built in pathnames \- On  \s-1UNIX\s0  platforms  then preset search paths are
built into the executable i.e. \fC/opt/jasspa\fR, \fC/usr/local/jasspa\fR etc.
.BU
The users home directory, taken from the  \fC/etc/passwd\fR  under \s-1UNIX\s0
and from the shell environment under Microsoft Windows.
.BU
The location of the executable,  typically only used under  Microsoft  Windows
and  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  environments  where the  concept of standard  installation
locations is vague.
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
which  identifies the preferred user directory  location,  overriding any home
directory location specified by the system.
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5
which   identifies  the   installation   directory  of  the  standard   macros
overriding any built in search path(s).
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht $MEPATH 5
which  absolutely  overrides any search paths with a user defined path. Use of
this variable is depreciated, a combination of
.Ht MEINSTALLPATH 5
and
.Ht MEUSERPATH 5
is preferred.
.BU
The command line option \fB\-u\fR \fIuser-name\fR to
.Ht me 1
which overrides the user name found by the system.
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht $MENAME 5
which overrides the user name found by the system.
.BE
The search  paths are  generally  ordered  from  highest  priority  to lowest
priority and typically arranged in the order:-
.IP
\fB$search-path=\fR\|\fI<user>\fR:\fI<company>\fR:\fI<me>\fR
.LP
where  \fI<user>\fR  represents  the  users  path(s);  \fI<company>\fR  is the
company file path(s) (e.g. company wide template files) and \fI<me>\fR path(s)
which contain the standard \*(mE files.
.PP
This would correspond to a typical  directory  installation, of user \fBfoo\fR
on \s-1UNIX\s0 such as:
.PP
\fC/usr/foo/.jassa\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \fR \- User files.
.br
\fC/usr/local/jasspa/company\fR \- Company wide files
.br
\fC/usr/local/jasspa/macros\ \fR \- MicroEmacs installation directory
.SH USAGE
The current working  directory is always checked first for the location of any
file.
.PP
.B $search-path
is used to locate all macro files, and other files located with operators such
as
.Ht &find 4 .
.PP
Users   should   not   modify   this    variable    directly,   the   external
aforementioned  environment  variables  should be used to affect  any  desired
changes.
.SH NOTES
The search path  operation  was revised in the \*(mS 2004 release and operates
differently from earlier releases.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht execute-file 2 ,
.Ht &find 4 .
.Ht $home 5 ,
.Ht $progname 5 ,
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 ,
.Hl "Variable Functions" Functions - .
.ad
.FH
