.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var090.5,v 2.2 2009-08-29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $MEINSTALLPATH 5
.XI $MEINSTALLPATH - "\*(mS system macros search path"
.XI $MEPATH - "\*(mS search path"
.XI $MEUSERPATH - "\*(mS user directory"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$MEINSTALLPATH"
$MEINSTALLPATH \- \*(mS system macros search path
.br
.Me "|$MEPATH"
$MEPATH \- \*(mS search path
.br
.Me "|$MEUSERPATH"
$MEUSERPATH \- \*(mS user directory
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.I "[Microsoft Windows/MS-DOS]"
.br
.B $MEINSTALLPATH
\fI<path1>\fR\|\fB;\fR\|\fI<path2>\fR\fB;\fR....\fB;\fR\|\fI<pathn>\fR
.br
.B $MEPATH=
\fI<path1>\fR\|\fB;\fR\|\fI<path2>\fR\fB;\fR....\fB;\fR\|\fI<pathn>\fR
.br
.B $MEUSERPATH
\fI<path>\fR
.sp
.I "[UNIX]"
.br
.B $MEINSTALLPATH
\fI<path1>\fR\|\fB:\fR\|\fI<path2>\fR\fB:\fR....\fB:\fR\|\fI<pathn>\fR
.br
.B $MEPATH=
\fI<path1>\fR\|\fB:\fR\|\fI<path2>\fR\fB:\fR....\fB:\fR\|\fI<pathn>\fR
.br
.B $MEUSERPATH
\fI<path>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These  environment  variables  control the run-time search paths for \*(mS and
affect the operation of 
.Ht $search-path 5 
and 
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
the macro search path and user macro directory respectively.
.PP
.B $MEINSTALLPATH
is an environment  variable that overrides any internally  defined search path
for \*(mS system macros and defines the root  directory(s)  of the  MicroEmacs
system macros. The presence of the environment variable affects 
.Ht $search-path 5 .
.PP
The environment variable 
.B $MEINSTALLPATH 
is ignored if 
.B $MEPATH 
is defined. The search path is always included after any 
user path defined by 
.Ht $user-name 5 .
.PP
.B $MEUSERPATH
is an  environment  variable  that defines the users  private  directory  
where user configuration files such as
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.emf\fR,
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.erf\fR
and personal spelling  dictionaries are stored. This is an absolute  directory
path. The environment variable sets the \*(mS variable
.Ht $user-name 5 .
.PP
.B $MEPATH
is an environment variable that may be used to define the absolute search path
for \*(mS macro files and affects the setting of
.BR $search-path .
The path should include the system macros  location(s)  and should include the
user directory location
.Ht $user-path 5
as the first path when the environment variable
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is not defined. If  \fB$MEUSERPATH\fR  is defined  then this path name appears
before the \fB$MEPATH\fR variable to define the user directory location.
.B $MEPATH
is not  searching,  so  \s-1ALL\s0  all  directories  to be  searched  must be
included in the path specification.
.PP
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is the preferred method used to defined the user directory.
.SS "Search Paths"
\*(mS needs to know the installation  directory location(s) of its macro files
when it executes,  this  includes  both user defined and system  macros. \*(mS
performs a searching operation of well-known  directory locations where it may
expect to find these macros at start up, the  locations  that it has found are
saved in macro variables 
.Ht $user-path 5 
and 
.Ht $search-path 5 
and  are  used  to  subsequently  locate  files  thereafter.  The  environment
variables  defined  here allow that default search process to be modified  
by the user or system administrator. 
.PP
Directories  are  specified  as  \fIsearching\fR  if  a  search  operation  is
performed. The following sub-directories of a base directory are 
searched for the existence of subdirectories:
.IP
.I .
\- root directory.
.br
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 
\- private user directory.
.br
.I company 
\- company files.
.br
.I macros
\- JASSPA standard macros.
.br
.I spelling
\- spelling dictionaries.
.LP
\*(mS   performs  a  searching   operation  on  some   directories  to  locate
information.  Generally,  if the  directory  exists then it is included in the
search path, otherwise it is excluded. Any  subdirectories  that are found are
added in the order presented above. The 
.Hl $search-path $search-path 5
is \s-1ONLY\s0 evaluated at start-up therefore directories created after \*(mS
is running are not detected until the editor is closed down and re-started. 
.SS UNIX
The defined search paths for \s-1UNIX\s0 are defined as follows:-
.PP
Default install directories:-
.IP
.I /opt/jasspa
\- searching (SunOS, HP-UX, AIX and IRIX only)
.br
.I /usr/share/jasspa
\- searching
.br
.I /usr/local/share/jasspa
\- searching (BSD systems only)
.br
.I /usr/local/jasspa
\- searching
.LP
The  default  user  location is defined as follows.
.IP
\fI$(passwd-home)/.jasspa\fR \- searching
.PP
\*(mS searches for user defined configuration files in this directory and will
write new user  configuration  files to this  directory.  The behaviour of the
search may be over-ridden by setting some environment variables. 
.TP 
\fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  \- not searching
.\"
Specified as a single pathname and redefines the  \fI$user-path\fR  where user
macros are placed, this overrides the  \fI$(passwd-home)/.jasspa\fR  directory
location.
.TP
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR \- searching
.\"
Specified as multiple  pathname  components and overrides the default  install
directory location (i.e. \fC/usr/local/jasspa\fR, etc. Typically used when the
system  macro  directory  has been  install  in another  location  that is not
included in the default  search path. This does not affect the user  directory
location.
.TP
\fC$MEPATH\fR \- not searching
.\"
Overrides the \fI$(passwd-home)/.jasspa\fR and default search paths (including
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR),  \*(mS will use this  directory as the search path. The
user directory is assumed to be the \s-1FIRST\s0  directory path in the string
unless the  \fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  environment variable is defined which specifies
the user path.
.SS "Microsoft Windows"
he defined search paths for \s-1WINDOWS\s0 are defined as follows:-
.IP
Default search locations:-
.IP
\fIExecutable directory location\fR  \- searching
.LP
The default user  location is defined as follows.   \*(mS  searches  for user
defined  configuration  files  in this  directory  and  will  write  new  user
configuration files to this directory. 
.IP
\fI$APPDATA\\jasspa\fR \- not searching
.LP
If  the  system  does  not  define  a  user  application  data  location  
(\fBWin95\fR and \fBWin32s\fR) then a directory 
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5
or the executable location is used.
.PP
The  behaviour may be  over-ridden  by setting the environment
variables as follows: 
.TP 
\fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  \- not searching
.\"
Specified as a single  pathname and redefines the users home  directory,  this
overrides the \fI$APPDATA\\jasspa\fR directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR \- searching
.\"
Specified as multiple  pathname  components and overrides the default  install
directory  location.  Typically used when the macro directory has been install
in another  location that is not in the same directory as the executable. This
does not affect the user directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEPATH\fR \- not searching
.\"
Overrides  the  \fI$APPDATA\\jasspa\fR  and  default  search  paths.
\*(mS will use the \s-1FIRST\s0  directory path as the 
.Hl $user-path $user-path 5 
unless \fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  is defined. 
.SS "MS-DOS"
\s-1MS-DOS\s0 does not include a concept of a user name or user directory.
.IP
Default search locations:-
.IP
\fIExecutable directory location\fR  \- searching
.LP
If a sub-directory exists at the executable location with name
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 
then this is used as 
.Hl $user-path $user-path 5 ,
otherwise the execution directory location is used.
.PP
The behaviour may be over-ridden using the environment variables. 
.TP 
\fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  \- not searching
.\"
Specified as a single  pathname and redefines the 
.Hl $user-path $user-path 5 
overriding the \fIexecutable\fR directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR \- searching
.\"
Specified as multiple pathname components and overrides the default executable
directory location. Typically used when the macro directory has been installed
at a different  location that is not in the same directory as the  executable.
This does not affect the user directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEPATH\fR \- not searching
.\"
Overrides the \fIExecutable...\fR and default search paths (including
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR). 
\*(mS will use  \s-1FIRST\s0  directory path as the 
.Hl $user-path $user-path 5 
unless \fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  is defined. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht $home 5 ,
.Ht $progname 5
.Ht $search-path 5 ,
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht emf 8 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
