.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var085.5,v 2.1 2004-01-11 01:11:17 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $line-flags 5
.XI $line-flags - "Current buffer line flags"
.SH NAME
$line-flags \- Current buffer line flags
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$line-flags\fR \fIbitmask\fR; No default
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fB$line-flags\fR  variable is used to retrieve or define the  behavioral
settings of the current  line in the buffer. This  variable is a bit flag, the
length of the bit flag is variable. In smaller  builds of \*(mS where features
have been  disabled then the field is only 8 bits wide, in a normal build then
the full 16 bits are present.
.IP \fB0x0001\fR
The line has changed as a result of an edit and has not been re-displayed. The
flag is cleared when the change has been displayed. This bit is read only.
.IP \fB0x0002\fR
The line contains an alpha mark defined by
.Ht set-alpha-mark 2 .
This bit is read only.
.IP \fB0x0004\fR
The line contains a narrow region, set by
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 .
This bit is read only.
.IP \fB0x0008\fR
The line contains some other type of anchor. This bit is read only.
.IP \fB0x0010\fR
The line should be saved without a new-line or nil termination character.
.IP \fB0x0020\fR
The line is a mark-up  line used for  annotation  and should not be saved on a
write operation. This bit permits lines in a buffer to be inserted for display
or annotation  purposes which are  automatically  discarded when the buffer is
written to file. Mark-up lines are sometimes  used by the buffer folding and
collapsing to annotate folds.
.IP \fB0x0040\fR
The line is protected. A protected line may be deleted or edited however it is
not  possible  to split or join a protected  line with any other line. This is
used by the folding or collapse mechanisms to protect
.Hl "narrrow" narrow-buffer 2
regions from editing operations.
.IP \fB0x0080-0x0800\fR
User defined. Users may use the upper most bits from left to right. JASSPA may
use more bits in future  releases which shall be consumed from the lower bits,
right to left.
.IP \fB0xf000\fR
The shifted
.Ht $line-scheme 5
setting. A value of zero indicates that there is no line scheme in effect
on the line.
.LP
Where a bit flag is  defined as read only then an attempt by the user to set a
read-only bit then the bit setting is ignored, any remaining writable bits are
set as requested.
.SH EXAMPLE
Refer to the file
.C fold.emf
for examples of the use of \fB$line-flags\fR.
.SH NOTES
.B $line-flags
was first introduced in \*(mS '04.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 ,
.Ht set-alpha-mark 2 ,
.Ht set-variable 2 ,
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-scheme 5
.Ht $line-scheme 5 .
.ad
.FH
