.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var034.5,v 2.6 2009/08/29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $platform 5
.XI $platform - "\\*(mS host platform identifier"
.\".XI %platform - "\\*(mS host platform type identifier"
.SH NAME
.br
.Me "|$platform"
$platform \- \*(mS host platform identifier
.br
.Me "|%platform"
%platform \- \*(mS host platform type identifier
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fB$platform\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is platform specific
.br
\fB%platform\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is platform specific
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B $platform
variable  is a  fixed  ASCII  string  used to  identify  the  current  working
platform,  attempts  to set this  variable  result in an error  returned  from
.Ht set-variable 2 .
.PP
Possible values are:
.TP
"\fBaix\fR"
All IBM \s-1AIX\s0 \s-1O/S\s0.
.TP
"\fBdos\fR"
All \s-1IBM-PC\s0s and compatibles running \s-1MS-DOS\s0.
.TP
"\fBfreebsd\fR"
All \s-1FreeBSD\s0 \s-1O/S\s0.
.TP
"\fBhpux\fR"
All Hewlett Packard's with \s-1HP-UX\s0 \s-1O/S\s0.
.TP
"\fBirix\fR"
All Silicon Graphics (\s-1SGI\s0) \s-1IRIX\s0 platforms 4.x, 5.x, 6.x.
.TP
"\fBlinux\fR"
All \s-1LINUX\s0 \s-1O/S\s0.
.TP
"\fBsunos\fR"
All Sun's with \s-1SUNOS\s0 \s-1O/S\s0.
.TP
"\fBunixwr1\fR"
\s-1PC\s0 based \s-1UNIX\s0 platform (Consensus and Unixware).
.TP
"\fBwindows\fR"
Microsoft Windows based systems including \s-1Windows 3.x\s0 (with Win32s),
\s-1Windows \'95\s0 and \s-1NT\s0 etc.
.LP
.B  $platform
is often used in \fB.emf\fR  files to allow  portability  of macro files across
platforms, allowing macro files to perform platform specific operations.
.Ht $system 5
is also often used for this purpose as its value is easier to assess.
.PP
\fB%platform\fR  is created at start-up  when  \fCme.emf\fR  is executed,  its
value is identical to \fB$platform\fR except when the platform is a console in
which case a '\fCc\fR'  is  appended  to the  $platform  value, e.g. for \*(mS
running a termcap  version on \s-1LINUX\s0  the value will be  "\fClinuxc\fR".
The  variable is used when the console and window  based  versions  need to be
distinguish, e.g. some of the
.Hl "user-setup" user-setup 3
settings.  
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example is taken from the \fBme.emf\fR file which uses the 
.B $platform
variable to load the platform specific initialization files.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
;
; load in the platform specific stuff
execute-file $platform
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
This could be more explicitly done by:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
;
; load in the platform specific stuff
!if   &seq $platform "dos"            ; is it an IBM-PC running dos ?
    execute-file "dos"
!elif &seq $platform "irix"           ; is it an sgi ?
    execute-file "irix"
!elif &seq $platform "hpux"           ; is it an hp ?
    execute-file "hpux"
    .
    .
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The \fB$platform\fR variable can not be set. Any attempt to set it will result
in an error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $system 5 ,
.Ht set-variable 2 .
.ad
.FH
