.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var013.5,v 2.6 2023/01/07 18:55:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH %http-cookies 5
.XI %http-cookies - "Set HTTP request cookies"
.XI %http-header - "Set additional HTTP request headers"
.SH NAME
.Me "|%http-cookies"
%http-cookies \- Set HTTP request cookies
.br
.Me "|%http-header"
%http-header \- Set additional HTTP request headers
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB%http-cookies\fR "\fIcookie=value; ...\fR"; Default is undefined
.br
\fB%http-header\fR "\fI:VERB:\fR"; Default is undefined
.br
\fB%http-header\fR "\fIHeader1: value1\\r\\n ...\fR";
.br
\fB%http-header\fR "\fI:VERB:Header1: value1\\r\\n ...\fR";
.SH DESCRIPTION
If the \fB%http-cookies\fR variable is set all HTTP file loading requests,
using commands like
.Ht find-file 2 ,
are sent with a \fBCookie:\fR request header (if not an empty string) and all response \fBSet-Cookie:\fR header values
will be merged into the current value, i.e. if the named cookie already exists in the \fB%http-cookies\fR variable its
value will be updated.
.PP
If the variable is not defined then no \fBCookie:\fR request header is sent and all response \fBSet-Cookie:\fR headers
are ignored.
.PP
If the \fB%http-header\fR  variable is set, if the first character is a ':' then the string up to the next ':' is used
as the HTTP  request  verb, e.g. POST, PUT, DELETE etc. If the value does not start with a ':' then the default  verb,
which is either  GET or POST, is used. The  remainder  of the value, if any, is  appended  to the end of the  standard
request header, but before the terminating blank line.
.PP
When a header is appended, the value is prefixed and suffixed with a '\fC\\r\\n\fR' newline, therefore if the value 
starts, ends or contains double newline character sequences the URL request will be invalid.
.SH NOTES
The \fB%http-cookies\fR variable should take the form of "<name1>=<value1>; <name2>=<value2>; ...; <name#>=<value#>" with no trailing ';',
names and values should be URL encoded.
.PP
As with variables like
@wl 4 ,
the returned value can be longer than the maximum length of a user defined  variable so care is needed if manipulating
its value using macro code.
.PP
\*(mS cookie support is minimal, it does not support  domains,  expires, paths etc. it is up to the user or supporting
macros to implement any additional features required.
.PP
\fB%http-header\fR can effect how a file is submitted using 
.Ht %http-post-file 5 ,
see help for the variable for more information.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %http-flags 5 ,
.Ht %http-post-data 5 ,
.Ht %http-post-file 5 ,
.Ht %http-proxy-addr 5 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht ftp 3 .
.ad
.FH
