.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Wed Aug 5 23:13:35 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var076.5,v 2.9 2009/08/29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable;environment
.so me.tni
.TH $MENAME 5
.XI $MENAME - "MicroEmacs user name"
.XI $LOGNAME - "System user name (UNIX)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$MENAME"
$MENAME \- MicroEmacs user name
.br
.Me "|$LOGNAME"
$LOGNAME \- System user name (UNIX)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fB$MENAME\fR \fIstring\fR;
.sp
\fB$LOGNAME\fR \fIstring\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $MENAME
is an  environment  variable  which  may  be  used  to  initialize  the  \*(mE
environment  for a given user. At start-up, if  \fB$MENAME\fR  is defined then
the user's  configuration and history file  "\fCname\fR\fI.erf\fR"  is located
and read, where \fCname\fR is the variable value. The environment  variable is
used to initialise the 
.Ht $user-name 5 
variable.
.PP
Where the user name has been specified on the command line using the \fB-u\fR
option to 
.Ht me 1 
then the environment variable is ignored and \fB\-u\fR option takes precedence.
.PP
The user configuration and session file has many uses, see
.Ht user-setup 3
and
.Ht read-session 3
for more information.
.SS "Microsoft Windows Environments"
Within  Microsoft  Windows  environments,  if  \fIlogin\fR is enabled then the
users  login name is  automatically  used as the first  choice  login name. No
environment  variables need to be set. If login is not enabled then one of the
aforementioned methods should be used.
.SS "Microsoft Windoes"
In Microsoft Windows environments,  \fB$LOGNAME\fR is sometimes defined.
.SH NOTES
The three  variables  must be  defined  before  start-up  for them to have any
effect.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht read-session 3 ,
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 .
.ad
.FH
