.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var089.5,v 2.3 2025/04/06 15:29:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $user-path 5
.XI $user-path - "\*(mS user directory"
.SH NAME
$user\-path \- \*(mS user directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$user\-path\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB$user\-path\fR  is  the  name  of  the  \*(mS  user  directory  where  user
configuration      files      such      as
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.emf\fR,
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.erf\fR
and personal spelling  dictionaries are stored. This is a single directory given as an absolute
path and always with a terminating directory separator character \'\fC/\fR'.
.PP
The  value of the  variable  is the first suitable directory located using the following rules in order:
.BS
The environment variable
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is defined,  \fB$user\-path\fR  is set to this value. If the  environment
\fB$MEUSERPATH\fR  is  defined  without  a  trailing  \'\fC/\fR'  then  it  is
automatically added. Note that the directory does not have to exist, but unexpected errors may occur if it does not.
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht $MEPATH 5
is defined, \fB$user\-path\fR is set to the first directory within the \fB$MEPATH\fR variable. Again, this path may not 
exist but may cause unexpected problems if it doesn't.
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5
is defined then 
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fC/\fR
is appended to each directory given within the \fB$MEINSTALLPATH\fR and if the resultant 
directory exists, \fB$user\-path\fR is set to this location. In this case, the user path must exist for it to be used.
.BU
A system dependent user configuration/application data directory is checked for and used if it exists, this directory is defined 
as follows:
.br
\fBUNIX\fR: \fC.config/jasspa/$user-name/\fR is appended to the user's home  directory, as defined in the  
\fC/etc/passwd\fR  entry, i.e. \fC$HOME/.config/jasspa/$user-name/\fR, see variable
.Ht $home 5 .
.br
\fBWindows\fR: \fCjasspa/$user-name/\fR is appended to the user's application data directory, i.e. 
\fC$APPDATA/jasspa/$user-name/\fR.
.br
\fBMS-DOS\fR: \fCjasspa/$user-name/\fR is appended to the
.Ht $home 5
directory, typically \fCC:/jasspa/$user-name/\fR.
.BU
If the executable is located within a \fCbin/\fR or \fCbin/<plaform>/\fR sub-directory, the sub-directory is removed 
and \fB$user-name/\fR appended, if the resultant 
directory exists, \fB$user\-path\fR is set to this location. In this case, the user path must exist for it to be used.
.BU
If no configuration paths, i.e. \fCmacros/\fR directory, have been located by this point, then any built in search
paths may be use in the same way as \fB$MEINSTALLPATH\fR above, currently only UNIX is built with a single search path
of \fC/usr/local/share/jasspa\fR.
.BE
If a suitable path was not located \fB$user-path\fR is set to a special value of \fCtfs://new-user/\fR and \*(mS runs
a \fBnew-user\fR command to setup the environment for you. This special path does not exist and is not writeable,
ensuring that \*(mS does not create user configuration files in unexpected places. While set to this, macros such as
.Ht user-setup 3
will warn you that any configuration changes cannot be saved.
.PP
It is therefore strongly recommended you run this \fBnew-user\fR command, when prompted, so that all your settings can
be located somewhere that is easy for \*(mS to find next time.
.SH NOTES
The user should not attempt to write to \fB$user\-path\fR, the variable should be controlled through the
aforementioned techniques.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht $home 5 ,
.Ht $progname 5
.Ht $search-path 5 ,
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht emf 8 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
