.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var083.5,v 2.5 2009/08/29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $version 5
.XI $version - "\*(mS version date-code"
.XI $build - "\*(mS build information"
.SH NAME
.Me |$version
$version \- \*(mS version date-code
.br
.Me |$build
$build - \*(mS build information
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fB$version\fR "\fIYYYYMMDD\fR"
\fB$build\fR "\fI <platform> <platform-mjr-ver> <arch> <bit-size> <toolset> <toolset-mjr-ver> \fR"
.fi
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB$version\fR is a system variable which is defined as the \*(mS build date code. This value is fixed at compile time
and cannot be changed. The variable may be used in macros to identify incompatibility issues.
.PP
\fB$build\fR is a
.Hl "\*(mS list" &lset 4
variable detailing the platform, architecture and toolset (compiler) used to build the running version. This variable
is used to locate compatible binary components such as upgrades or
.Hr OpenSSL 1
dynamic libraries.
.SH EXAMPLE
Given a macro  that only  operates  with a \*(mS  executable  built on or
after 1st August 2001 then this macro should check that  \fC$version\fR  is not
less than \fC20010801\fR. The check may be performed as follows:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!if &les $version "20010801"
    ml-write "[Error: MicroEmacs executable is incompatible]"
    !abort
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The \fB$version\fR variable was introduced in 2001-08-01, evaluating this variable on an earlier version of \*(mS would
return the string "\fCERROR\fR" unless an environment variable $version has been defined. "\fCERROR\fR" evaluates to
\fC0\fR hence the test still operates correctly.
.PP
This variable is used in the macro file \fCme.emf\fR to check for any macro - executable incompatibility issues.
.PP
The \fB$build\fR variable was introduced in 2024-07-01 along with the
.Hl find-file keyNames 2
pseudo key which together can be used to download and install missing or out-of-date components.
.FH
