.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var027.5,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|window
.so me.tni
.TH $scroll 5
.XI $scroll - "Screen scroll control"
.SH NAME
$scroll \- Screen scroll control
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC$scroll\fR \fIscrollNum\fR; Default is \fC1\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIscrollNum\fR <= n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $scroll
controls the  horizontal  and vertical  scrolling  method used to display long
lines and buffers. The variable is split into two componants, the first nibble
(\fC0x0f\fR)  sets the horizontal  scroll, and the second nibble  (\fC0xf0\fR)
sets the  vertical.  For the  purpose of  documentation  these  parts are kept
separate, but when setting the variable a single combined value must be given.
.PP
The horizontal settings are defined as follows:
.IP \fC0x00\fR
Scroll method 0 will only scroll the current line, this is the fastest  method
in execution time.
.IP \fC0x01\fR
Scroll method 1 (the default) will scroll the whole page horizontally when the
.Ht scroll-left 2 
and
.Ht scroll-right 2
commands are used.  However, when the current line must be scrolled to display
the cursor due to a
.Ht forward-char 2
type cursor movement, only the current line is scrolled and the rest are reset.
.IP \fC0x02\fR
Scroll method 2 always scrolls the whole page horizontally, keeping the cursor
in the current  column  range. If the cursor  moves out of this range then all
the page is scrolled to the new  position.  This is  particularly  useful when
editing long lined tables.
.IP \fC0x03\fR
Scroll  method 3 fixes  the  scroll  column  using the  \fBscroll-left\fR  and
\fBscroll-right\fR functions. If the current cursor position is not visible in
the column range then only the current line is scrolled to the new position.
.PP
The vertical settings are defined as follows:
.IP \fC0x00\fR
Scroll  method 0 (the  default)  will scroll the current line to the middle of
the current  window whenver it is moved off screen, this is the fastest method
in execution time.
.IP \fC0x10\fR
Scroll  method 1 will  scroll  the  current  line to the the top of the window
whenver the current line is moved off the screen using
.Ht backward-line 2
and to the bottom of the window when
.Ht forward-line 2
is used. This creates the effect of a smooth scroll.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example sets the scrolling method to be the default horizontally
(\fC0x01\fR) and smooth method (\fC0x10\fR) vertically :
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable $scroll 0x11
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht scroll-left 2 ,
.Ht forward-line 2 ,
.Ht $window-x-scroll 5 ,
.Ht $window-y-scroll 5 .
.ad
.FH
