.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var053.5,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|paragraph
.so me.tni
.TH $fill-bullet 5
.XI $fill-bullet - "Paragraph filling bullet character set"
.XI $fill-bullet-len - "Paragraph filling bullet search depth"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$fill-bullet"
$fill-bullet \- Paragraph filling bullet character set
.br
.Me "|$fill-bullet-len"
$fill-bullet-len \- Paragraph filling bullet search depth
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$fill-bullet\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fC*)].\-\fR"
.br
\fB$fill-bullet-len\fR \fIlength\fR; Default is \fC5\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIlength\fR <=
.Hl $buffer-fill-col $buffer-fill-col 5
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $fill-bullet
contains the set of characters which are classified as bullet markers for
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 .
If these characters are encountered in the first
.B $fill-bullet-len
characters  of  the  paragraph  \s-1AND\s0  the  character  is  followed  by a
\fCSPACE\fR  or a  \fCtab\fR  character  then the user is given the  option to
indent to the right of the bullet.
.PP
.B $fill-bullet-len
determines  the maximum depth into the paragraph (in  characters)  the filling
routines  should search for a bullet  character. The default value is 15. Note
that the paragraph  starts at the first  non-white  space  character.  e.g. to
detect  "\fCxviii)\ \fR" as a bullet then the bullet  length must be set to at
least 6 to detect the bullet character "\fC)\fR".
.SH EXAMPLE
Examples of filled bullet paragraphs are shown as follows, based on the default
.B $fill-bullet
character set.
.CS
a) This is an  example of a  fill-paragraph.  The  closing
   bracket is classified as a bullet character and filling
   optionally takes place to the right of the bullet.

a] Another paragraph

*  A bullet paragraph

1. A numbered paragraph.

item - A dashed bullet.
.CE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $buffer-fill-col 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-fill-mode 5 ,
.Ht $fill-col 5 ,
.Ht $fill-ignore 5 ,
.Ht $fill-mode 5 ,
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht justify 2m .
.ad
.FH
