.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var017.5,v 1.2 2025/03/25 21:19:29 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|buffer|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-xlate 5
.XI $buffer-xlate - "Buffer on-save translation configuration"
.SH NAME
.na
$buffer-xlate \- Buffer on-save translation configuration
.Me $a
.ad
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$buffer-xlate\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $buffer-xlate
defines the translation needed to be performed before the buffer is written to file, this variable is only ever used 
when the 
.Ht xlate 2m
buffer mode is enabled. The variable is a bitwise flag where each bit has the following meaning:
.IP \fB0x003\fR
The lower 2 bits define the base translation, where a value of \fC0\fR indicates a lossless text file, \fC1\fR a UTF-8 
encoded Uncode file, \fC2\fR a UTF-16 and \fC3\fR a UTF-32 encoded Unicode file.
.IP \fB0x004\fR
When this bit is set and converting to UTF-16 or UTF-32 then the file is written in big-endian byte order, if clear
the file is written in little-endian byte order.
.IP \fB0x008\fR
When set a Unicode 'BOM' character (\fCU+FEFF\fR)is written out first.
.SH NOTES
The value of this variable is set by the
.Ht translate-buffer 2
command such that on saving the same format will be written out. As a result this value can be passed in to 
\fBtranslate-buffer\fR if the file is re-read.  
.PP
The value of \fB$buffer-xlate\fR for a Unicode file can be safely changed to different formats, i.e. UTF-16 LE to 
UTF-32 BE etc. However, changing between lossless text and Unicode formats can have unexpected results due to 
additional Unicode character sequences and line termination styles. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht translate-buffer 2 ,
.Ht xlate 2m ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht reread-file 3 ,
.Ht find-hfile 3 ,
.Ht find-ufile 3 .
.ad
.FH
