.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var007.5,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:04 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|buffer
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-mask 5
.XI $buffer-mask - "Current buffer word class mask"
.SH NAME
$buffer-mask \- Current buffer word class mask.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$buffer-mask\fR \fBstring\fR; Default is \fCluh\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $buffer-mask
sets the  current  buffer  word class mask. \*(mE has an internal  word lookup
table which defines whether a given letter is considered to be part of a word.
This functionality is used in many areas such as
.Ht forward-word 2 ,
.Ht forward-kill-word 2
hilighting  etc. The mask is composed  with any  combination  of the following
flags, the order in which the flags are specified is not important:
.IP \fBl\fR
All lower case letters.
.IP \fBu\fR
All upper case letters.
.IP \fBh\fR
All hexadecimal characters (used to include numerical digits).
.IP \fBs\fR
Spell  extended   characters,   typically  set  to  accent (\fC'\fR), 
hyphen (\fC-\fR)  and period (\fC.\fR).
.IP \fB1\fR
User set \fB1\fR, usually set to just underscore (\fC_\fR) for many system and
programming files such as 'C'.
.IP \fB2\fR
User  set   \fB2\fR,   usually  set  to   '\fC-\fR',   '\fC$\fR',   '\fC&\fR',
\&'\fC#\fR', '\fC!\fR', '\fC%\fR', '\fC:\fR' and '\fC@\fR' for \*(mS files.
.IP \fB3\fR
User set \fB3\fR, not usually defined.
.IP \fB4\fR
User set \fB4\fR, not usually defined.
.PP
The character sets may be modified using the 
.Ht set-char-mask 2 
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht set-char-mask 2 ,
.Ht forward-word 2 .
.ad
.FH
