.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var088.5,v 2.2 2009/08/29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $user-name 5
.XI $user-name - "\*(mS user name"
.SH NAME
$user\-name \- \*(mS user name
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$user\-name\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB$user-name\fR  is the  name  of the  \*(mS  user.  The  name  is  used  for
identifying user configuration files such as \fI$user\-name\fR\|\fB.emf\fR and
\fI$user\-name\fR\|\fB.erf\fR, the start-up
.Hl user UserProfiles 2
macro file and
.Ht erf 8
registry file that contains saved user preferences.
.PP
The \fB$user\-name\fR is determined as follows, in order of precedence:
.BS
The
.Ht me 1
command line option \fB-u\fR \fIusername\fR.
.BU
The environment variable
.Ht MENAME 5
(alternatively via \fC$LOGNAME\fR on Microsoft Windows platforms \s-1ONLY\s0).
.BU
The name determined from the system. On \s-1UNIX\s0 then the
\fC/etc/passwd\fR entry is used, on MicroSoft Windows then the
login name is used.
.BU
When no other name is located then  \fCuser\fR  is used (MS-DOS and  Microsoft
Windows environments running without a login mechanism).
.BE
For most  conventional  \fIlogin\fR  systems  then the  correct  login name is
retrieved  and it is not  necessary  to  over-ride  the name, unless a special
configuration of \*(mS is being used.
.SH NOTES
The user should not attempt to write to \fB$user\-name\fR, the variable should
be controlled through the aforementioned techniques.
.PP
\fB$user-name\fR was first introduced into \*(mS in the 2004 release.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht me 1 ,
.Ht $home 5 ,
.Ht $search-path 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht emf 8 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
