.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var043.5,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|insert
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-tab-width 5
.XI $buffer-tab-width - "Buffer tab character interval"
.SH NAME
$buffer-tab-width \- Buffer tab character interval
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$buffer-tab-width\fR \fCinteger\fR; Default is 
.Ht $tab-width 5 .
.sp
\-0 < \fIinteger\fR <= \fIn\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $buffer-tab-width
defines the width of a tab  character  in terms of  displayable  spaces, a tab
character  is  typically  8 spaces. A tab  character  appearing in a buffer is
rendered  with up to  \fB$buffer-tab-width\fR  spaces  to take it to the  next
column boundary of modulo \fB$buffer-tab-width\fR.
.PP
Modification of the variable value causes the displayed tab width to change to
the new value. The macro 
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3 
may be used to convert all tabs to spaces.
.PP
When a buffer is created (file loading or creation)  then the default value is
taken from the 
.Ht $tab-width 5 
variable.
.SH NOTES
The indentation of a buffer is controlled by the 
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 
and not the \fB$buffer-tab-width\fP when automatic
.Ht indent 2 
is enabled.
.PP
The   November   2004  version  of  \*(mS   removed  the  existing   variables
\fB$tabwidth\fR   and  \fB$tabsize\fR   which  were  ambiguous.  The  existing
variable  scope was global which caused  problems  when moving to buffers with
different tab width properties. The variables have been replaced with 
.Ht $tab-width 5
and 
.BR $buffer-tab-width .
The  indentation  which was  previously  controlled  by the tab width has been
replaced with 
.Ht $indent-width 5 
and 
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $tab-width 5 ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht tab 2m ,
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3 .
.ad
.FH
