.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var048.5,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:10:55 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|window
.so me.tni
.TH $window-col 5
.XI $window-col - "Window cursor column (no expansion)"
.XI $window-line - "Window cursor line"
.XI $window-acol - "Window cursor actual column"
.XI $window-aline - "Window cursor actual line"
.XI $window-wcol - "Window cursor column (historic)"
.XI $window-wline - "Window cursor line (historic)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$window-col"
$window-col \- Window cursor column (no expansion)
.br
.Me "|$window-line"
$window-line \- Window cursor line (with narrows)
.br
.Me "|$window-acol"
$window-acol \- Window cursor actual column (expansion)
.br
.Me "|$window-aline"
$window-aline \- Window cursor actual line (ignore narrows)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$window-col\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 65535
.sp 2
\fB$window-line\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
1 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n
.sp 2
\fB$window-acol\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n
.sp 2
\fB$window-aline\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
1 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $window-col
is defined as the  current  position of the cursor in the current  line in the
current  window.  Column  zero  is the  left  hand  edge.  This  differs  from
\fB$window-acol\fR  in that \s-1tab\s0 and special characters only count for 1
character. \fB$window-col\fR is valid in the range 0 - \fIn\fR.
.PP
.B $window-line
is defined as the  current  buffer line number the cursor is on in the current
window. Line numbering starts from 1. \fB$window-line\fR is valid in the range
1 - \fIn\fR.
.PP
\fB$window-aline\fR  is  identical  to  \fB$window-line\fR  except  when  the
current buffer contains narrowed out sections before the current line. In this
case  \fB$window-line\fR  will be set to the line number without  counting the
number of lines in the narrow,  whereas  \fB$window-aline\fR  will  return the
current  line number  including  all lines  narrowed  out before it. When this
variable is set, the line  required may lie in a narrowed out section in which
case the narrow is automatically removed. See
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
for more information on narrowing.  
.PP
.B  $window-acol
is defined as the current  column of the cursor in the current  window. Column
zero is the left  hand  edge.  This  differs  from  \fB$window-col\fR  in that
\s-1tab\s0 and special characters may not count for 1 character.
.SH NOTES
Variable  \fB$window-wcol\fR  was renamed to  \fB$window-acol\fR in June 2000.
Variable   \fB$window-wline\fR   was   also   removed   and  a  new   variable
\fB$window-y-scroll\fR  introduced at this time. The following  macro code can
be used to calculate the value of the original \fB$window-wline\fR variable:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
&sub &sub $window-line $window-y-scroll 1
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $screen-depth 5 ,
.Ht $window-depth 5 ,
.Ht $window-width 5 ,
.Ht $window-y-scroll 5 ,
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 .
.ad
.FH
