.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var037.5,v 2.7 2009/08/29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH $frame-depth 5
.XI $frame-depth - "Number of lines on the current frame canvas"
.XI $frame-width - "Number of columns on the current frame canvas"
.XI $screen-depth - "Number of character lines on the screen canvas"
.XI $screen-width - "Number of character columns on the screen canvas"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$frame-depth"
$frame-depth \- Number of lines on the current frame canvas
.br
.Me "|$frame-width"
$frame-width \- Number of columns on the current frame canvas
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$frame-depth\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
3 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 400
.sp
\fB$frame-width\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
8 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 400
.SH DESCRIPTION
These  variables  allow the  viewable  size of the current  frame canvas to be
determined.
.PP
.B $frame-depth
identifies  depth of the current frame given as the number of character lines.
This is the whole frame width, not just what is  currently  visible. The value
returned  is in the  range 3 - \fIn\fR,  \fIn\fR  is system  dependent  but no
greater than 400.
.PP
.B $frame-width
identifies the width of the current frame as the number of character  columns.
The value  returned is in the range 8 - \fIn\fR,  \fIn\fR is system  dependent
but no greater than 400.
.SH NOTES
The   name  of  these   variables   changed   from   \fB$screen-depth\fR   and
\fB$screen-width\fR due to the support for multiple frames introduced in April
2002.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht change-frame-depth 2 ,
.Ht change-frame-width 2 .
.ad
.FH
