.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var062.5,v 2.6 2009/08/29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $command-names 5
.XI $command-names - "Filtered command name list"
.SH NAME
$command-names \- Filtered command name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $command-names
.I CommandName
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $command-names 
must first be  initialized  to the required  filter string, if the variable is
evaluated  before it is initialized the value will be set to "\fIABORT\fR" and
the command will fail. The filter takes the form of a
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2 .
.PP
Once initialized, evaluating  \fB$command-names\fR returns the name of the next
command  which  matches the filter until no more  commands are found, in which
case an empty string is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example  prints out the name of all commands to the massage line
one at a time. Note that 
.Ht &set 4
is used on the
.Ht !while 4
statement to avoid evaluating \fB$command-names\fR twice per loop.
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable $command-names ".*"
!while &not &seq &set #l0 $command-names ""
    100 ml-write &cat "command: " #l0
!done
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
The  following  example is an alternative implementation of
.Ht command-apropos 2 .
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
define-macro alt-commad-apropos
    set-variable #l1 @ml "Apropos string"
    set-variable $command-names &cat &cat ".*" #l1 ".*"
    !force 0 delete-buffer "*commands*"
    1 popup-window "*commands*"
    !while &not &seq &set #l0 $command-names ""
        insert-string &spr "    %s\\n" #l0
    !done
    beginning-of-buffer
    -1 buffer-mode "edit"
    1 buffer-mode "view"
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
.SH NOTES
\fB$command-names\fR  does not  differentiate  between  built in commands  and
macros.
.PP
The list of commands is  evaluated  when the variable is  initialized,  macros
created after the initialization will not be included in the list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht list-commands 2 ,
.Ht command-apropos 2 ,
.Ht $buffer-names 5 ,
.Ht $file-names 5 ,
.Ht $mode-names 5 ,
.Ht $variable-names 5 ,
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2 .
.ad
.FH
