.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var068.5,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:54:51 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $variable-names 5
.XI $variable-names - "Filtered variable name list"
.SH NAME
$variable-names \- Filtered variable name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $variable-names
.I VariableName
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $variable-names 
must first be  initialized  to the required  filter string, if the variable is
evaluated  before it is initialized the value will be set to "\fIABORT\fR" and
the command will fail.
.PP
The filter string can contain wild-card  characters  compatible with most file
systems, namely:-
.IP \fB?\fR
Match any character.
.IP \fB[abc]\fR
Match character only if it is \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR or \fIc\fR.
.IP \fB[a-d]\fR
Match character only if it is \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR or \fId\fR.
.IP \fB[^abc]\fR
Match character only if it is not \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR or \fIc\fR.
.IP \fB*\fR
Match any number of characters.
.PP
Note that these are not the same characters used by
.Ht exact 2m
mode.
.PP
Once  initialized,  evaluating  \fB$variable-names\fR  returns the name of the next
variable which  matches the filter until no more variables are found, in which case an
empty string is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example  prints out the name of all variables to the massage line
one at a time. Note that 
.Ht &set 4
is used on the
.Ht !while 4
statement to avoid evaluating \fB$variable-names\fR twice per loop.
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable $variable-names "*"
!while &not &seq &set #l0 $variable-names ""
    100 ml-write &cat "variable: " #l0
!done
.CE 0
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
.SH NOTES
The list of variables is evaluated when the variable is initialized, variables
defined  after the  initialization  will not be included in the list. The list
can contain the current buffer's buffer variables (See
.Ht Variables 4
for more information on the different types of variables).
.PP
Using
.Ht unset-variable 2
to delete a variable  which are in the list, before it has be evaluated,  will
have undefined effects.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht list-variables 2 ,
.Ht $command-names 5 .
.ad
.FH
