.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var035.5,v 2.6 2023/02/19 18:17:03 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $random 5 
.XI $random - "Generate a random number"
.SH NAME
$random \- Generate a random number
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fC$random\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 16777215
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B $random
variable  returns a unique random number in the range 0 - \fIn\fR on reference
to the variable.
.PP
The random number  generator should first be seeded, by setting the variable. If \fB$random\fR is set to a non-zero number then
a  fixed/repeatable  sequence of random  numbers will be generated,  each initial seed value will generate a different
sequence. If  \fB$random\fR  is set to zero  (\fC0\fR) a random seed is used so an unknowable  sequence of
random numbers will be generated.
.PP
The range of the random  number  generator is fixed across all systems. The value is typically  capped to the required
range using the
.Ht &mod 4 
arithmetic  operator,  but  note  that  this  creates  a slight  biasing  if  16777216  is not a  multiple  of the cap
(there is a bias towards numbers less than the remainder, but this is generally ignorable).
.SH NOTES
\*(mS uses algorithm xoshiro128** to generate 32 bit random numbers and then rotated right 8 bits to discard the least
significant byte and avoid negative numbers.
.PP
This should not be considered a cryptographically secure generator.
.SH EXAMPLE
The variable may be assigned to generate a new seed as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable $random 0        ; Set it so we get a new random sequence
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The returned value is used with the \fB&mod\fR operator to limit the value to a desired range:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %random0to9 &mod $random 10
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht &mod 4 .
.ad
.FH
