.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var000.5,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:54:36 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $auto-time 5
.XI $auto-time - "Automatic buffer save time"
.SH NAME
$auto-time \- Automatic buffer save time
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$auto-time\fR \fIseconds\fR; Default is \fC300\fR seconds
.sp
0 <= \fIseconds\fR <= t
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets the  number of seconds to wait until an edited  buffer is  auto-saved  to
temporary file to t seconds. A setting of 0 disables the auto-saving  command.
Auto-saving  can be enabled and  disabled on a per buffer  basis using  buffer
mode
.Ht autosv 2m .
.PP
The auto-save file naming convention is the same as the backup name only using
hash ('\fC#\fR') instead of tilde ('\fC~\fR') and is automatically  removed on
saving a buffer.
.PP
On unlimited length file name systems (\s-1UNIX\s0), the following file naming
conventions are used for file \fCxxxxx\fR:
.IP
.C "xxxxx -> xxxxx#"
.LP
On  systems  with  an  \fCxxxxxxxx.yyy\fR  file  name  (\s-1DOS\s0  etc),  the
following file naming conventions are used:
.IP
.nf
.C "xxxxxxxx     -> xxxxxxxx.###"
.C "xxxxxxxx.y   -> xxxxxxxx.y##"
.C "xxxxxxxx.yy  -> xxxxxxxx.yy#"
.C "xxxxxxxx.yyy -> xxxxxxxx.yy#"
.fi
.SH NOTES
The user is  warned  to be extra  careful  if files  ending  in  '\fC~\fR'  or
\&'\fC#\fR's are used, it is advisable to disable backup creation (see
.Ht global-mode 2 )
and auto-saving  (\fC$auto-time = 0\fR). The author denies all  responsibility
(yet again) for any loss of data! Please be careful.
.PP
Auto-save files of URL files (i.e.  "\fCftp://...\fR" and  "\fChttp://...\fR")
are written to the system's temporary  directory. This avoids potentially slow
auto-saves. This can however lead to recovery problems as the buffer name must
be used to avoid  auto-saving  conflict  with other buffers with the same base
file name but different paths.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht autosv 2m ,
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht ftp 3 .
.ad
.FH
