.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var042.5,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:05 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|insert
.so me.tni
.TH $tabsize 5
.XI $tabsize - "Tab character width"
.SH NAME
$tabsize \- Tab character width
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$tabsize\fR \fIinteger\fR; Default is \fC4\fR
.sp
\-0 < \fIinteger\fR <= \fIn\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $tabsize
defines the width of a tab character.
.PP
Setting  tabs to arbitrary  widths is possible in  \*(mE  but you must be
aware  of a subtle  difference  that it makes to your  file and  hence to your
editing.  When  you  start  \*(mE,  the tab  width is set to the  default
(usually  every 8th column) for the tab character  (\fCCTRL-I\fR).  As long as
you stay with the default,  every time you insert the tab  character, a CTRL-I
get inserted. Hence, you logically have a single  character which might appear
to be several  spaces on the screen (or the output)  depending upon the column
location of the tab character.  This means that to remove the spacing you have
to delete a \fIsingle\fR character \-\- the tab character.
.PP
On the other hand, the moment you  explicitly set the tab interval (even if it
is to the default  value),  \*(mE  handles the tab character by expanding
the  character  into  the  required  number  of  spaces  to  move  you  to the
appropriate column. In this case, to remove the spacing you have to delete the
appropriate number of spaces inserted by \*me to get you to the right column.
.PP
The operating mode of the tab expansion is controlled by the 
.Ht tab 2m  mode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2 
.Ht tab 2m ,
.Ht $tabwidth 5 .
.ad
.FH
