.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Wed Jan 26 00:47:52 2000
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var049.5,v 2.6 2023/01/02 14:16:51 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH %ftp-flags 5
.XI %ftp-flags - "Configure the FTP console"
.XI %http-flags - "Configure the HTTP console"
.SH NAME
.Me "|%ftp-flags"
%ftp-flags \- "Configure the FTP console"
.br
.Me "|%http-flags"
%http-flags \- "Configure HTTP and HTTPS support"
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB%ftp-flags\fR "[\fCc\fR|\fCd\fR|\fCi\fR|\fCp\fR|\fCs\fR]" ; Default when undefined is "\fCci\fR".
.br
\fB%http-flags\fR "[\fCC\fR|\fCc\fR|\fCd\fR|\fCh\fR|\fCi\fR|\fCp\fR|\fCs\fR|\fCv\fR|\fCw\fR]" ; Default when undefined is "\fCc\fR".
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fB%ftp-flags\fR  and  \fB%http-flags\fR  modify the behavior of the editor  during FTP and HTTP file  transfers,
respectively. (see
.Ht ftp 3
and
.Ht find-file 2 ).
.PP
By default, the flags are  disabled,  the  facilities  outlined  below are enabled by setting the variable in the user
configuration. The flag values for both flags are defined as follows:-
.IP \fBC\fR
HTTP(S) only: close socket after every request. When this flag is not given \*(mS sends \fCkeep-alive\fR so the socket
connection may be reused.
.IP \fBc\fR
Create a console buffer  (\fC*ftp-console*\fR for ftp,  \fC*http-console*\fR for http) into which the FTP/HTTP command
interactions with the remote server are logged.
.IP \fBd\fR
Show details of commands executed and returned headers.
.IP \fBh\fR
HTTP(S) only: halt on a redirection. When this flag is not given \*(mS will automatically  follow up to 5 redirections
(\fCLocation:\fR in the response header), note that a 
.Ht %http-post-file 5
or 
.Ht http-post-data 5
is only sent on the initial request.  
.IP \fBi\fR
FTPS, FTPE & HTTPS only: ignore certificate errors, useful when trying to load pages from a self-signed site.
.IP \fBp\fR
Show the download  progress within the console window ('\fC#\fR' for every 2KB
downloaded)
.IP \fBs\fR
Show the console whenever a FTP/HTTP operation is performed. The console is popped into the display pane and shows the
current interaction status.
.IP \fBv\fR
FTPS, FTPE & HTTPS only: show verbose information such as certificate details.
.IP \fBw\fR
FTPS, FTPE & HTTPS only: show warnings of potential issues with the secure socket support layer.
.LP
Typically the following flags are enabled in the \fIuser\fR.emf file:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %ftp-flags "cisp"
set-variable %http-flags "csp"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Once familiar with this facility the console pop-up becomes inconvenient and the flags are typically reduced to:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %ftp-flags "ci"
set-variable %http-flags "c"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
This disables the pop-up feature of the console. Enabling the limited flag set allows some post mortem debugging to be
performed if anything goes wrong. The console buffers are manually selected when these flags are set.
.SH NOTES
Note that ftp and http facilities are available on \s-1UNIX\s0 by default, but
must be compiled in for Windows versions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %http-cookies 5 ,
.Ht %http-post-data 5 ,
.Ht %http-post-file 5 ,
.Ht %http-proxy-addr 5 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht ftp 3 .
.ad
.FH
