.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var002.5,v 2.6 2026/01/18 14:24:24 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-fhook 5
.XI $buffer-fhook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer creation)"
.XI $buffer-dhook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer deletion)"
.XI $buffer-bhook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer current)"
.XI $buffer-ehook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer swapped)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$buffer-fhook"
$buffer-fhook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer creation)
.br
.Me "|$buffer-dhook"
$buffer-dhook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer deletion)
.br
.Me "|$buffer-bhook"
$buffer-bhook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer current)
.br
.Me "|$buffer-ehook"
$buffer-ehook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer swapped)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $buffer-fhook
.I FunctionName
.br
.B $buffer-dhook
.I FunctionName
.br
.B $buffer-bhook
.I FunctionName
.br
.B $buffer-ehook
.I FunctionName
.SH DESCRIPTION
Defines the buffer create, delete, begin and end hook command which are executed:
.IP \fB$buffer-fhook\fR
When the buffer is created.
.IP \fB$buffer-dhook\fR
When the buffer is deleted.
.IP \fB$buffer-bhook\fR
When the buffer becomes the current buffer.
.IP \fB$buffer-ehook\fR
When the buffer is swapped out from being the current buffer.
.LP
The variable \fB$buffer-fhook\fR cannot be directly set and is largely redundant as the file hook is executed only
when the buffer's
.Ht major-mode 2
is first assigned. Its main use is within macros which wish to ascertain what type of buffer it is executing on, i.e.
if a command was to be executed only on C files then the follow ensures that this is the case:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!iif &not &seq $buffer-fhook "fhook-c"  !abort
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Where the command \fIfhook-c\fR is the C major-mode file hook, note that the
.Ht $buffer-major-mode 5
can often be used for the same purposes.
.PP
\fBdhooks\fR are executed when a buffer is deleted, but before the contents of the buffer are lost. Note that dhooks
will not be called if the buffer never becomes active, or if \*(mS quits due to the receipt of a panic signal.
.PP
\fBbhooks\fR and \fBehooks\fR are usually used to set and restore global variables which require different setting in
the current buffer.
.PP
These variables are initially set by the system when the buffer first becomes active, when the buffer's
.Ht major-mode 2
is determined. After this point the \fBdhook\fR, \fBbhook\fR & \fBehook\fR variables can be set to any function the user 
wishes, however the \fB$buffer-fhook\fR variable can only be changed by calls to \fBmajor-mode\fR as the value of the 
variable must stay in sync with
.Ht $buffer-major-mode 5 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht major-mode 2 ,
.Ht buffer-init 3 ,
.Ht $buffer-major-mode 5 ,
.Hl "Language Templates" languageTemplates 2 
.ad
.FH
