.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var006.5,v 2.7 2025/10/27 19:40:56 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|shell|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-ipipe 5
.XI $buffer-ipipe - "Divert buffer incremental pipe input through macro"
.SH NAME
$buffer-ipipe \- Divert buffer incremental pipe input through macro.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $buffer-ipipe
.I commandName
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $buffer-ipipe
allows the buffer incremental pipe input mechanism to be diverted through a command macro defined by
\fIcommandName\fR. On a buffer running an
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
the command, set by this variable, will be called whenever new text has been inserted by the executing process. Two
\fIalpha-marks\fR will be set in the buffer, '\fCi\fR' denotes the start of the newly inserted text and \'\fCI\fR'
denotes the end.
.PP
When the ipiped command exits the \fIcommandName\fR is called with a numeric argument of 0 and the
.Ht $result 5
variable is set to the exit code of the process, this will be the last call of the command. The following values of 
\fB$result\fR are also used by \*(mS:
.IP \fB-1000\fR
The ipiped process did not exit normally, cause unknown.
.IP \fB-1009\fR
The ipiped process was killed.
.IP \fB-1011\fR
The ipiped process core dumped.
.IP \fB-1015\fR
The ipiped process was terminated.
.PP
Not all platforms support all of these exit codes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ,
.Ht goto-alpha-mark 2 ,
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-input 5 .
.ad
.FH
