.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var055.5,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:30:39 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|window|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH $scroll-bar 5
.XI $scroll-bar - "Scroll bar configuration"
.SH NAME
$scroll-bar \- Scroll bar configuration
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$scroll-bar\fR "\fIbitmask\fR"; Default is platform specific
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $scroll-bar
defines  the  configuration  of the  scroll bar and/or the  horizontal  window
separator for both main text windows and
.Ht osd 2
dialogs.  The  variable  is  interpreted  as a  bit  mask  and  defines  which
components  of the scroll bar (or  separator)  should be rendered in a window.
The characters used to render the scroll bar or separator are defined by
.Ht $window-chars 5 .
The bit mask is defined as follows:-
.IP "\fB0x001\fR - Vertical Scroll Bar Width"
Bit 0 controls the width of the vertical scroll bar (or separator). A value of
0 corresponds to a single column width, a value of 1 is a double column width.
.IP "\fB0x002\fR - Upper end cap"
Bit 1 set  indicates  that the scroll bar has an upper end cap. This is the up
arrow character at the top of a scroll bar.
.IP "\fB0x004\fR - Lower end cap"
Bit 2 set indicates  that the scroll bar has a lower end cap. This is the down
arrow character at the bottom of a scroll bar.
.IP "\fB0x008\fR - Corner"
Bit 3 set indicates that separate corner character is used at the intersection
of the mode line and the separator.
.IP "\fB0x010\fR - Scroll Box Enable"
Bit 4  determines  if the scroll bar has a scrolling  box, when the bit is set
each scroll bar will have a scroll box. When clear,  scroll bars are  rendered
according to bits 0-3 & 7 only and the main area of the bar is left empty.
.IP "\fB0x020\fR - Reverse Video Box"
Bit 5 when set enables the scroll box to be rendered in reverse video, that is
the background and foreground/hilight scroll colors are interchanged. This bit
is typically set on X-Window  platforms allowing the scroll box to comprise of
\fCSPACE\fR  characters  allowing a solid box to be rendered in the foreground
color.
.IP
Bit 5 is only enacted if scroll boxes are enabled.
.IP "\fB0x040\fR - Horizontal Scroll Bar Width"
Bit 6 controls the width of the horizontal scroll bar, used only by
.Ht osd 2 .
A value of 0  corresponds  to a single  column width, a value of 1 is a double
column width.
.IP "\fB0x080\fR - Splitter"
Bit 7 set indicates  that the scroll bar has a splitter. This is the split bar
character at the top of a scroll bar.
.IP "\fB0x100\fR - Enable window Scroll Bars"
When Bit 8 is clear,  scroll bars are not present on windows. If a  horizontal
split has been  performed  then the window  separator is rendered  plain. This
is useful  when  performance  is  important,  as scroll bars  require constant
up-date. 
.IP "\fB0x200\fR - Horizontal Scroll Bar Width"
Bit 9 enables  scroll  bars,  when the bit is set each  window is  assigned  a
scroll bar in the right-hand column(s) of the window with a scroll box.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $mouse-pos 5 ,
.Ht $scroll-bar-scheme 5 ,
.Ht set-scroll-with-mouse 2 ,
.Ht $window-chars 5 .
.ad
.FH
