.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var084.5,v 1.3 2009/08/29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $window-flags 5
.XI $window-flags - "Current window setup flags"
.SH NAME
$window-flags \- Current window setup flags
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$window-flags\fR \fIbitmask\fR; Default is \fC0\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The   \fB$window-flags\fR   variable  is  used  to  set or get various   behavioural
characteristic settings of the current window, it is a bit based flag where:
.IP \fB0x001\fR
If set the width of the window is locked, calls to
.Ht resize-all-windows 2
will maintained the width of this window whenever possible.
.IP \fB0x002\fR
If set the depth of the window is locked, calls to
.Ht resize-all-windows 2
will maintained the depth of this window whenever possible.
.IP \fB0x004\fR
If set the buffer being  displayed by the window is locked, the user can still
manually change the buffer being displayed (by using commands like
.Ht find-buffer 2 )
but commands that pop-up buffers (such as
.Ht help 2
or
.Ht find-tag 2 )
will not use this window.
.IP \fB0x008\fR
When set the command
.Ht compare-windows 2
will ignore this window.
.IP \fB0x010\fR
When set the commands like
.Ht previous-window 2
and 
.Ht next-window 2
will  skip this  window  unless  the  numeric  argument  given to the  command
is used to override the flag setting.
.IP \fB0x020\fR
When set the command
.Ht delete-other-windows 2
will not delete this  window  unless  the  numeric  argument  given to the  command
is used to override the flag setting.
.IP \fB0x040\fR
When set the command
.Ht delete-window 2
will not delete this  window  unless  the  numeric  argument  given to the  command
is used to override the flag setting.
.IP \fB0x080\fR
When set the window cannot be split using either the
.Ht split-window-horizontally 2
or
.Ht split-window-vertically 2
commands.
.IP \fB0x100\fR
If not set the window cannot be deleted if it is the only window  without this
bit set. This more  esoteric  feature is utilized by the  toolbar, all toolbar
windows  have this bit set which  means  that the main user  window  cannot be
delete.
.SH NOTES
The $window-flags setting is not preserved during a window splitting operation
(i.e. using a command like
.Ht split-window-vertically 2 )
as the persistence of these settings can lead to unexpected behaviour.
.PP
The  toolbar  uses bit  0x1000 to  indicate  that the window is  displaying  a
toolbar  tool, this bit  should  not be used by users and its value  should be
maintained.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht next-window 2 ,
.Ht delete-other-windows 2 ,
.Ht compare-windows 2 .
.ad
.FH
