.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m8fil006.8,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH me32.ini 8
.XI me32.ini - "Microsoft Window's Initialization (ini) File"
.SH NAME
me32.ini \- Microsoft Window's Initialization (ini) File
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
.sp
.B "[Location]"
\fBexe\fR=\|\fI<executablePathname>\fR
.sp
.B "[Defaults]"
\fBmepath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBuserpath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBfontfile=\fR\|\fI<fontFileName>\fR
.sp
\fB[\fR\|\fI<userName>\fR\|\fB]\fR
\fI<environmentVariable>\fR\|\fB=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
\fI<environmentVariable>\fR\|\fB=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
.sp
\fB[\fR\|\fI<userName>\fR\|\fB]\fR
\fI<environmentVariable>\fR\|\fB=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
\fI<environmentVariable>\fR\|\fB=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
.sp
\fB;\fR \fIComments commence with a semi-colon\fR
.fi
.ad
.SH PLATFORM
.B "Microsoft Windows environments only"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B me32.ini
is the Microsoft Windows  configuration file, located in the windows directory
(typically
\fBC:\\Windows\fR\|),
the
.B me32.ini
file is  primarily  used to  counteract  the  deficiencies  of  Windows  shell
environment (as compared with \s-1UNIX\s0) with respect to the  initialization
of environment variables.
.PP
The  configuration  file may be  considered  to be split into two  sections, a
\fBDefaults\fR section, which defines system settings and a \fBUser\fR section
which allows environment variables to be defined.
.SS "User Section"
The \fBUser  Section\fR is executed prior to the  \fBDefaults  Section\fR. The
\fBUser Section\fR uses the user name which is defined as follows:-
.BS
The  environment  variable
.Ht $MENAME 5 .
.BU
The \fIlogin\  name\fR under Windows '95 or NT if \fB$MENAME\fR is not set. If
the \fIlogin\  name\fR is defined then environment  variable  \fB$MENAME\fR is
set to this value.
.BU
The  environment  variable
.Ht $LOGNAME 5
if the \fIlogin\ name\fR cannot be located.
.BU
\fBguest\fR if none of the above are defined.
.BE
A section  \fB[\fR\|\fIuserName\fR\|\fB]\fR  is looked up, and if located each
of the entries  \fI<environmentVariable>\fR \fB=\fR \fI<value>\fR is extracted
and pushed into the execution environment. The  \fB<environmentVariable>\fR is
automatically  promoted to upper case if  specified as a lower case entry. The
environment  variables may be  subsequently  used within the \fB.emf\fR macro
files to configure \*(mE at start up.
.PP
Any value may be inserted  into the  environment  including the  \fC$MENAME\fR
environment variable which is used in the next section.
.SS "Defaults Section"
The defaults section, labeled \fB[Defaults]\fR includes the following keys:-
.IP "\fBmepath\fR"
The directory (or folder) location of the \*(mE default configuration files.
.IP "\fBuserpath\fR"
The directory (or folder)  location of the user(s)  directories.
.IP
Given that the \fBuserpath\fR is specified as \fCc:\\me98.5\fR  and the user is
called \fCfoo\fR, then the directory location  \fCc:\\me98.5\\foo\fR  is considered to
be the user path.
.IP
If the  \fBuserpath\fR  is omitted then the \fBmepath\fR  entry is used as the
user path.
.LP
The \fBuserpath\fR and \fBmepath\fR entries are concatenated  together to form
the environment  variable
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
e.g. \fIuserpath\|\fB\\\|\fIlogname\fR\|\fB;\fR\|\fImepath\fR.
If the entries are omitted the then
environment variable \fC$MEPATH\fR is used as defined. The \fBmepath\fR and
\fBuserpath\fR are configured initialy by the
.B InstallShield
installation process.
.IP "\fBfontfile\fR"
The name of the font file used to render the text to the  screen. The  default
font file is \fBdosapp.fon\fR, this is a fixed mono font as used in the MS-DOS
windows.
.SS "Location Section"
The location  section,  labeled  \fB[Location]\fR,  identifies the location of
\*(mE,  and  is  typically  used  by  other  components  to  find  and  launch
MicroEmacs. The section includes the following keys:-
.IP \fBexe\fR
The absolute pathname to the \*(mE executable image.
.ne 20
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is an example of the \fBme32.ini\fR file:-
.CS
; External locater for the executable 
[Location]
exe=c:\\Program Files\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe
;
[Defaults]
; mepath
; The location of the MicroEmacs common files.
;
mepath=d:/me98.4/common
;
; userpath - The location of the users MicroEmacs directory.
; The $MENAME is appended as a directory to userpath
;
userpath=d:/me98.4/common
;
; fontfile - The name of the font file used as default.
fontfile=dosapp.fon
.ne 22
;
;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
;
; Environment settings for a user.
; All settings are pushed into the environment.
;
;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
;
[guest]
term=8x12
;
[jon]
MENAME=jon
FOO=bar
;
[jnaught]
MENAME=jon
FOO=bar
;
[bill]
\.\.\.\.
.CE
Note that  multiple  users share the same  \fBme32.ini\fR  file, each user may
include their own  configuration  settings  which may be  interrogated  in the
configuration  files (e.g. \fC$FOO\fR is assigned the value  \fCbar\fR,  which
may be extracted from the environment context).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht emf 8 .
.ad
.FH
