.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m8fil007.8,v 2.2 2009-08-29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH .Xdefaults 8
.XI .Xdefaults - "UNIX Window Manager defaults file"
.SH NAME
\.Xdefaults \- UNIX Window Manager defaults file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.sp
.B MicroEmacs.font:
.I font
.br
.B MicroEmacs.geometry: 
\fIchar-width\fR\|\fBx\fR\|\fIchar-height\fR [\fB+-\fR]\|\fIxoffset\fR [\fB+-\fR]\|\fIyoffset\fR
.br
.B MicroEmacs.name:
.I name
.br
.B MicroEmacs.iconname:
.I name
.ad
.SH PLATFORM
.B "\s-1UNIX\s0 environments only"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B .Xdefaults
is the UNIX  X-Windows  configuration  file that permits some of the X-Windows
start up settings to be  configured.  The file is typically  loaded into the X
database  when the  Window  Manager  starts  and the  values are read from the
database by \*(mS at start up, over-riding any internal defaults.
.PP
The 
.B .Xdefaults 
file is used by other  applications  and  \*(mS may be added to the end of any
existing file.
.PP
The values interpreted by \*(mS are defined as follows:
.TP
\fBMicroEmacs.font:\fR \fIfont\fR
.\"
Specifies the font to use.
.TP
\fBMicroEmacs.geometry:\fR \fIchar-width\fR\|\fBx\fR\|\fIchar-height\fR [\fB+-\fR]\|\fIxoffset\fR [\fB+-\fR]\|\fIyoffset\fR
.\"
The   geometry   of   the   X-Window   at   start-up.   \fIchar-width\fR   and
\fIchar-height\fR  define  the  width  and  depth of the  frame  specified  in
characters of the current font.  \fIxoffset\fR  and \fIyoffset\fR  specify the
position of the wind with respect to the top left of the screen,  defaults are
used when specified as 0.
.TP
\fBMicroEmacs.name:\fR \fIname\fR
.\"
Over-rides  the name prefix used in the X-Window title bar, by default this is
specified as \fIMicroEmacs\fR\|. 
.TP
\fBMicroEmacs.iconname:\fR \fIname\fR
.\"
Over-rides the name prefix used in a X-Window  iconic display, by default this
is specified as \fIMicroEmacs\fR\|. 
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is an example of the \fB.Xdefaults\fR file:-
.CS
.ne 23
!######################################################################
!#                                                                    #
!# Defaults for MicroEmacs startup                                    #
!#                                                                    #
!######################################################################
!# MicroEmacs.font: <fontname>
!# Set the default font.
MicroEmacs.font: -*-lucidatypewriter-medium-r-*-*-*-*-*-*-m-*-*-*
!# MicroEmacs.font: -*-clean-medium-r-*-*-*-130-*-*-*-*-*-*

!# MicroEmacs.geometry: <char-width>x<char-height> {+/-}<xoffset> {+-}<yoffset>
!# Set up the default screen size and position.
!# 102x65 characters please, 30 pixels from top left
MicroEmacs.geometry: 102x65 30 30

!# MicroEmacs.name: <name>
!# The name displayed in the title bar format is <name>: <file>
MicroEmacs.name: JASSPAs MicroEmacs

!# MicroEmacs: <icon-name>
!# The name displayed when MicroEmacs is iconized
MicroEmacs.iconname: JASSPAs MicroEmacs
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
The \fB.Xdefaults\fR  file is typically read once at login and and any changes
to the files are not enacted  until the Window  Manager is re-started or a new
login session commences.
.PP
The settings in the  \fB.Xdefaults\fR  may be  subsequently  overridden by the
settings defined in 
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.ad
.FH
