.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m8fil003.8,v 2.8 2009/08/29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs files
.so me.tni
.TH emf 8
.XI emf - "MicroEmacs macro file"
.SH NAME
emf \- MicroEmacs macro file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \*(mE  macro  files  are  ASCII  text  files,  given  the file  extension
\fB.emf\fR. A number of special macro files exist as follows:-
.TP 
\fBme.emf\fR
.\"
The  start-up  macro file. This file is the first macro file to be invoked and
is used to bootstrap \*(mE into the correct configuration.
.TP 
\fBhk\fR\|\fI<name>\fR\|\fB.emf\fR
.\"
Macro files prefixed with \fBhk\fR generally denote
.Hl "File Hook" fileHooks 2 
macro files which are automatically invoked when known file types are loaded.
.TP
\fI<logname>\fR\|\fB.emf\fR
.\"
The  users  start-up  configuration  file,  typically  used to  configure  the
environment with the users preferences.
.IP "\fI*\fR\|\fBterm.emf\fR"
Platform specific configuration files, used to configure the environment for a
specific platform.
.LP
Macro files may be any name, the more prominent macro files are:-
.IP \fBcolor.emf\fR
Color definitions for the buffers.
.IP \fBmouse.emf\fR
Mouse interaction macros.
.IP "\fBosd.emf\fR"
OSD Menu configuration file.
.SH FILES
The default  start-up  file  \fBme.emf\fR  is located in the \*(mE  \fIhome\fR
directory
.Ht $user-path 5 .
.PP
User's may create their own start-up and files in their local \*(mE directory.
The users start-up file is called  
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.emf\fR,
and may be used to execute other macro files defined by the user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Ht emftags 3f ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht execute-file 2 .
.sp
.Hl "Writing MicroEmacs Macros" macroWriting 4
.br
.Hl "Macro Glossary" MacroGlossary -
.br
.Hl "Macro Debugging - A Crash Course" macroDebugging 4 
.br
.Hl "MicroEmacs Macro Language at a Glance" macroOverview 4 
.ad
.FH
