.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m8fil005.8,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:30:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs files
.so me.tni
.TH ehf 8
.XI ehf - "MicroEmacs help file"
.SH NAME
ehf \- MicroEmacs help file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fB!\fR\|\fI<helpTag>\fR
\fI<Text Description>\fR
\.\.\.
\fB|\fR\|\fI<helpId>\fR
\fI<Text Description Line>\fR
\.\.\.
\fB$\fR\|\fI?\fR
\.\.\.
\fI<Text Description>\fR
\fB!\fR\|\fI<helpTag>\fR
\fB!\fR\|\fI<helpTag>\fR
\fI<Text Description>\fR
\.\.\.
.fi
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The on-line help information is retained in the file  \fBme.ehf\fR, this is an
ASCII text file which holds all of the on-line help information. The help file
comprises  of  formatted  text  \fI<Text  Description>\fR  which is  literally
displayed  to  the  user  when  help   information  is  requested.  Each  text
description  is  delimited into  pages with a  \fB!\fR\|\fI<helpTag>\fR  which
identifies the block of text with a help label.
.PP
The  \fB!\fR\|\fI<helpTag>\fR  is placed  before the text  description  and is
identified by a exclamation  mark  (`\fB!\fR')  placed at the beginning of the
line. The  \fI<helpTag>\fR is the identifying name used by the help system and
takes the following form:
.IP
.C "LSSNNNN..."
.PP
Where:
.IP \fBL\fR
Is the length of the  "\fCNNNN...\fR"  name which must be  matched, a value of
\&'\fC \fR' indicates that the whole name must be matched, otherwise the value
must be in the range '\fC1\fR' - '\fC9\fR' indicating the number of characters
to be match.
.IP \fBSS\fR
Is the section  number of the page, the first  character  should be a numeric
(i.e. '\fC3\fR' for a macro) and the second is an optional  section  letter. A
value of '\fC \fR' indicates no section number and/or letter.
.IP \fBNNNN...\fR
The page name, the length is unlimited but must be on one line.
.PP
Multiple \fI<helpTag>\fR's may be associated with a common text description by
proceeding a block of text with multiple  tags, each on a separate  line, with
no intervening non-tag lines (i.e. lines that do not commence with \fB!\fR).
.PP
The \fI<Text Description>\fR that follows is the text associated with the tag.
When the help system is invoked with the tag then the text is displayed. There
are 2 types  of  internal  command  lines,  lines  starting  with a  '\fC|\fR'
indicate  that the  following  line should only be displayed if the  requested
help page is \fI<helpId>\fR,  where \fI<helpId>\fR is the the name used in the
\fI<helpTag>\fR.   This  is  a  useful   mechanism  for  pages  with  multiple
\fI<helpTag>\fRs.
.PP
Lines which contain just  "\fC$?\fR" are \*(mS command lines where \fC?\fR can
be:
.IP \fCa\fR
For a command help page display any global key bindings, for variables display
its current value.
.PP
\*(mS uses a special hilighting scheme to control color schemes and hyper-text
links, the special  embedded tags all start with and escape character (0x1b or
\&'\fC^[\fR') and are defined as follows:
.IP \fC^[c?\fR
Tag used to change color where \fC?\fR can be:
.RS
.nf
\fCA  \fRwhite, used for main text.
\fCB  \fRred, used for underlining.
\fCC  \fRgreen, used for italic font.
\fCD  \fRcyan, used for bold font.
\fCE  \fRlight yellow, used for a header.
\fCF  \fRlight red, used for and image link.
.fi
.RE
.IP \fC^[s?\fR
Tag used to change hilighting scheme where \fC?\fR can be:
.RS
.nf
\fCA  \fRNormal ehf hilight.
\fCB  \fR\*(mS macro (or emf) hilighting.
.fi
.RE
Note that other tags can only be used in the normal ehf hilighting scheme.
.IP \fC^[ls<link>^[lm<name>^[le\fR
Used to create  hyper-links,  \fC<link>\fR  is the help link name which can be
omitted if it is the same as \fC<name>\fR. \fC<name>\fR should not contain any
other tags, it is automatically displayed in the magenta color scheme.
.SH NOTES
When the help  system is invoked  for the first time,  \fBme.ehf\fR  is loaded
into   internal   memory  and   fragmented   into  labeled   pages  using  the
\fI<helpTag>\fR  information.  Hence, any edits made to  \fBme.emf\fR  are not
visible in the help system until the next session.
.PP
Macros and alike may add  additional  help  information  to the internal  help
database at run-time using the 
.Ht define-help 2 
command.
.PP
The help hilighting is applied to the help buffer from the hilighting  macro's
defined in  \fBhkhelp.emf\fR.  The  hilighting is \s-1NOT\s0  part of the help
file.
.PP
Special hilighting keys may be included in \fBme.ehf\fR provided that they are
interpreted by the help hilighting defined in \fBhkehf.emf\fR.
.PP
.I "<Text Description>"
lines cannot commence with \fB!\fR,  \fB|\fR or  \fB$\fR in the first column.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following help entry defines the help for
.Ht global-mode 2 ,
.Ht add-global-mode 3
and
.Ht delete-global-mode 3 .
It uses most features  mentioned, namely multiple link names, color and scheme
changes and several hyper-text links:
.CS
! 2 global-mode
! 3 add-global-mode
! 3 delete-global-mode
^[cE^[cENAME ^[cE^[cA


|global-mode
    global-mode - Change a global buffer mode 
|add-global-mode
    add-global-mode - Set a global buffer mode 
|delete-global-mode
    delete-global-mode - Remove a global buffer mode 
$a


^[cE^[cESYNOPSIS ^[cE^[cA


    ^[cCn^[cA ^[cDglobal-mode^[cA "^[cCmode^[cA" (^[cDesc m^[cA) 
    ^[cDadd-global-mode^[cA "^[cCmode^[cA" 
    ^[cDdelete-global-mode^[cA "^[cCmode^[cA" 


^[cE^[cEDESCRIPTION ^[cE^[cA


    ^[cDglobal-mode^[cA changes the state of one of the hereditary
    global modes. A buffer's modes are initialized to the global
    modes when first created. This command is very useful in changing
    some of the default behavior such as case sensitive searching (see
    the example below). See ^[ls^[lmOperating Modes^[le for a full list
    and description of modes. Also see ^[ls^[lmbuffer-mode(2)^[le for a 
    full description of the use of the argument ^[cCn^[cA. 

    The ^[ls^[lminfo(2)^[le command gives a list of the current global
    and buffer modes. 

    ^[cDadd-global-mode^[cA and ^[cDdelete-global-mode^[cA are macros
    defined in me3_8.emf which use global-mode to add or remove a global
    mode. They are defined for backward compatibility and for ease of
    use; they are simple macros, add-global-mode is defined as follows: 
^[sB
        define-macro add-global-mode 
            ; Has the require mode been given as an argument, if so add it 
            !force 1 global-mode @1 
            !if &not $status 
                ; No - use 1 global-mode to add a mode 
                !nma 1 global-mode 
            !endif 
        !emacro 

^[sA

^[cE^[cEEXAMPLE ^[cE^[cA


    The following example globally disables ^[ls^[lmexact(2m)^[le and
    ^[ls^[lmmagic(2m)^[le modes, if these lines are copied to the user
    setup file then are searches will be simple and case insensitive by
    default: 
^[sB
        -1 global-mode "exact" 
        -1 global-mode "magic" 

^[sA

^[cE^[cENOTES ^[cE^[cA


    Globally adding ^[ls^[lmbinary(2m)^[le and ^[ls^[lmcrypt(2m)^[le
    modes is strongly discouraged as any file loaded would be assigned 
    these modes. Instead the use of commands ^[ls^[lmfind-bfile(2)^[le
    and ^[ls^[lmfind-cfile(2)^[le are recommended. 

    ^[ls^[lmauto(2m)^[le, ^[ls^[lmautosv(2m)^[le, ^[ls^[lmbackup(2m)^[le,
    ^[ls^[lmexact(2m)^[le, ^[ls^[lmmagic(2m)^[le, ^[ls^[lmquiet(2m)^[le,
    ^[ls^[lmtab(2m)^[le and ^[ls^[lmundo(2m)^[le modes are present on all
    platforms by default. On Windows and DOS platforms ^[ls^[lmcrlf(2m)^[le
    is also present and on DOS ^[ls^[lmctrlz(2m)^[le is also present. 


^[cE^[cESEE ALSO ^[cE^[cA


    ^[ls^[lmOperating Modes^[le, ^[ls^[lmbuffer-mode(2)^[le, 
    ^[ls^[lmfind-bfile(2)^[le, ^[ls^[lmfind-cfile(2)^[le,
    ^[ls^[lminfo(2)^[le. 
.CE 0
.SH FILES
The help file \fBme.ehf\fR is located in the \*(mE \fIhome\fR directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht define-help 2 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 .
.ad
.FH
