.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ023.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ023.9,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:11:10 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH vrml 9
.XI vrml - "VRML File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
vrml \- VRML File
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkvrml.emf
\- VRML File hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fI<none>\fR \- Uses the \fIMagic String\fR only.
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB#VRML\fR"
A generic tag that  appears on the first line at the top of a  \fBVRML\fR  (or
\fBwrl\fR) file.  MicroEmacs  automatically  recognises the tag and adopts the
appropriate mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvrml\fR file type template handles the hilighting of \fBVRML\fR files.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow commands, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*a\*ctab\fR \- Restyle a region.
.SH BUGS
No bugs reported
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
