.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : 2025-09-11
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ062.9,v 2.6 2025/09/11 10:43:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH ps1 9
.XI ps1 - "PowerShell File"
.XI PowerShell - "PowerShell Programming Language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
ps1, psm1 \- PowerShell files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkps1.emf
\- PowerShell hook definition
.br
.B ps1.eaf
\- PowerShell abbreviation file
.br
.B ps1.etf
\- PowerShell template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.ps1\fR \- PowerShell file
.br
\fB.psm1\fR \- PowerShell module file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBPowerShell\fR  file type  editing provides  simple  hilighting of PowerShell
files,  abbreviations,  folding,  item-list  support 
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for PowerShell file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBel\fR" (else) or "\fBfu\fR" (function) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is  enabled  within  the PowerShell  file. The folds  occur  about
functions, classes and enums if these declarations are starting at the beginning of 
one line and ending at a line starting with a curly brace.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The PowerShell mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions, classes and enums for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (#).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fB\*eq\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fB\*cf2\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  and other features are  typically extended using a file \fBmyps1.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
None  reported so far but many  features are added just  recently and have not
been tested throughly as our main development platform is Linux.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
