.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ042.9,v 1.1 2005-01-23 18:29:44 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH ruby 9
.XI ruby - "Ruby programming language"
.XI rb  - "Ruby programming language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Ruby \- Ruby programming language
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkruby.emf
\- Ruby programming language file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.rb\fR \- Ruby programming language
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB#![ \\t]*/.*ruby\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on any of the first line of the file.
.TP
\fB-[*!]-[ \\t]*ruby.*-[*!]-\fR
.\"
GNU Emacs magic string.
.LP
The ruby files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBruby\fR file type template provides simple highlighting of Ruby files.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP  \fBHighlighting\fR
The highlighting  features allow commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic   folding  is  enabled,  the  folds  occur  about   \fBmodule\fR   and
\fBclass\fR definitions  located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available and the key  constructs of the file may be listed in
the \fIitem-list\fR.
.IP "\fBIndentation\fR"
Automatic indentation is provided, including a buffer re-style.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*eh\fR \- Key binding help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hash (#).
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Format a comment
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close list items window.
.SH BUGS
In line  redirection  (i.e.  \fC<<  EOL\fR)  can cause  rendering  and  indent
anomalies.
.PP
The block documentation remains under indent control, this should be disabled.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
