.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ028.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon May 24 17:33:29 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ028.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:10 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH cbl 9
.XI cbl - "Cobol (85) File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
cbl \- Cobol (85) files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkcobol.emf
\- Cobol (85) hook definition
.br
.br
.B cobol.etf
\- Cobol (85) template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.cbl\fR \- Cobol file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB-*- cobol -*-\fR"
Recognized by MicroEmacs and GNU Emacs, defines the file to be a cobol file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBcbl\fR file type templates provide simple hilighting of Cobol 85 files,
the template provides minimal hilighting the language syntax.
.SH NOTES
No  special  language   features  are  provided  within  the  language  syntax
definition.
.SH BUGS
The Fortran hilight file is in it's infancy and a number of it's tokens may be
misplaced.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
