.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 24 22:19:53 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ040.9,v 1.2 2009-08-29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH verilog 9
.XI verilog - "Verilog hardware description language"
.XI v - "Verilog hardware description language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Verilog \- Verilog hardware description language
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkverilg.emf
\- Verilog hardware description language hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.v\fR \- Verilog file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBVerilog\fR  file type template  provides  simple  highlighting  of the
Verilog  hardware  description  language.  \fB.v\fR  files  are  automatically
recognized as Verilog files.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features  allow  commands,  variables  and  operators  of the
language to be differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP \fBComments\fR
Comments  may be formatted  using  \fC\*eo\fR,  which  reformats  the comments
according  to  the  current  fill  paragraph.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*eh\fR \- Key binding help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hash (#).
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Format a comment
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
