.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ030.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon May 24 17:48:03 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ030.9,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:12:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH asm 9
.XI asm - "Assembler File"
.XI s - "Assembler File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
asm, s \- Assembler File
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.s\fR \- Platform specific assembler file.
.br
\fB.asm\fR \- Platform specific assembler file.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The standard assembler file extensions  \fB.s\fR and \fB.asm\fR are by default
not bound to any hook functions as they are platform specific. The user should
define a default  binding for the assembler  file types as  appropriate to the
current platform and assembler  development. i.e. for the Windows  environment
the
.Ht x86 9
file type would be conditionally bound to the file e.g.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!if &seq $platform "win32"
    add-file-hook ".s .asm"             fhook-asmx86
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht x86 9 .
.br
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes - .
.ad
.FH
