.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ011.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ011.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH rul 9
.XI rul - "Install Shield Rules"
.SH SYNOPSIS
rul \- Install Shield Rules
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkrul.emf
\- Install Shield hook definition
.br
.B rul.etf
\- Install Shield template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.rul\fR \- Install Shield Rules file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBrul\fR  file type  template  provides  simple  hilighting of Install Shield Rules
files.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow commands, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The 
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is enabled  within the rul file. The folds  occur  about the
keywords \fBfunction\fR...\fBend\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht fold-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht fold-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fold-current 3 ,
.Ht fold-all 3 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
