.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Author        : Detlef Groth
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ059.9,v 2.9 2025/08/28 02:15:19 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH au3 9
.XI au3 - "Autoit 3 Scripting Language File"
.XI autoit - "Autoit 3 Scripting Language File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
au3 \- Autoit 3 Scripting Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkau3.emf
\- Autoit 3 Scripting Language file hook definition
.br
.B au3.etf
\- Autoit 3 Scripting Language header template file
.br
.B  au3.eaf
\- Autoit 3 Scripting Language abbreviation file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.au3\fR \- Autoit 3 file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBautoit\fR  file type template  provides the  hilighting,  indentation,
folding, item list and tools definitions for a perl file.
.PP
File  recognition  is performed  using the standard file extension  \fB.au3\fR.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow functions, commands, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Autoit file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBwh\fR" (while) or "\fBfu\fR" (function) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic   folding  is  enabled  within  perl  files.  The  folds  occur  about
\fIFunc\fRtion   definitions  located  on  the  left-hand  margin  and  their
closing \fIEndFunc\fR keyword which is located as well at the beginning of a line.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Autoit mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Restyle comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- close item list
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  is  typically   extended  using  a  file   \fBmyau3.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
None which are currently known. As the author does not use this scripting 
language anymore, the highlighting and folding and item-list command 
might be not working as expected in all cicrumstances and support of 
more modern features of this scripting language on the Windows platform
might be not available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
