.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2026 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : Wed Jan 21 13:30:47 2026
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ056.9,v 2.6 2026/01/21 13:44:37 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH puml 9
.XI pml - "PlantUML Diagram Language File"
.XI plantuml - "PlantUML Diagram Language File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
puml \- Graphviz Dot Diagram Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkpuml.emf
\- PlantUML diagram file hook definition
.br
.B puml.eaf
\- PlantUML diagram abbreviation file
.br
.B puml.etf
\- PlantUML diagram template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.puml\fR, \fB.pml\fR \- PlantUML file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBPlantUML\fR  file macro  provides  simple  hilighting of PlantUML
diagram files.
.PP
File   recognition   is   performed   using  the   standard   file   extension
\fB.puml\fR or \fB.pml\fR.
.IP "\fBEditing Environment\fR"
Beside  of syntax  highlighting  the file hook  offers as well  abbreviations,
folding for the style section of the file. Further  is is  possible  to expand  abbreviations  either via short
strings using the
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command and visual inserting abbreviations using the mouse by the
.Ht abbrev-list 3
macro. 
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for PlantUML code  editing
which  can  be  used  by   writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBum\fR"
(start/enduml environment)
"\fBmm\fR" (mindmap environment) or "\fBst\fR" (style section) - and  then  pressing  the
key-binding  for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the PlantUML files. The folds occur about
the \fBstyle\fR sectionss located on the left-hand margin at the beginning 
of the line and the closing style tag. 
The following commands are supported to show and hide the function bodies.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  is  typically   extended  using  a  file   \fBmypuml.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
No serious known so far.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht dot 9 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH

