.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ010.9,v 2.6 2025/07/13 13:35:02 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH p 9
.XI p - "Pascal File"
.XI pas - "Pascal File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
p, pas \- Pascal files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkpascal.emf
\- Pascal hook definition
.br
.B pascal.eaf
\- Pascal abbreviation file
.br
.B pascal.etf
\- Pascal template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.p\fR, \fB.pas\fR \- Pascal file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBpascal\fR  file type  template  provides  simple  hilighting of Pascal
files, the template provides minimal hilighting.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Pascal file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBel\fR" (else) or "\fBbe\fR" (begin/end) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is  enabled  within  the Pascal  file. The folds  occur  about
functions,  procedures, record or classes as long as these declarations are on
one line and and at a line starting with the \fBEnd;\fR keyword.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Pascal mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions, procedures, records and classes or objects for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBWorking Environment\fR"
.Ht compile 3
may be invoked to rebuild the source, the user is prompted to save any files.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fB\*eq\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fB\*cf2\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
