.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : Tue Nov 1 13:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ070.9,v 1.2 2025/11/01 15:13:02 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH doctools 9
.XI doctools - "Tcl Doctools Markup File"
.XI tman - "Tcl Doctools Markup File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
tman, man \- Tcl Doctools Markup File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkdtools.emf
\- Tcl Doctools file hook definition
.br
.B dtools.eaf
\- Tcl Doctools abbreviation file
.br
.B dtools.etf
\- Tcl Doctools template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.tman\fR \- Tcl Doctools files 
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB -[*!]- doctools\fR
.\"
\*(mS  recognizes  the  magic  string  on the  first  line of the file used to
indicate  the file type. The files may be extension  less or have an extension
like .man and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBTcl Doctools\fR file hook provides a editing  environment for Tcl doctools
files. The file hook  provides  highlighting,  folding  of  section,  document
outline using  item-list and  abbreviations.  
.PP
File   recognition   is   performed   using  the   standard   file   extension
\fB.tman\fR.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Typst code  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBse\fR"
for a section  header,  "\fBex\fR"  for an  example  block,  "\fBdl\fR"  for a
definition list, or "\fBli\fR" for an item list - and  then  pressing  the
key-binding  for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the Tcl doctools files. The folds occur about
the section lines. The following commands are supported to show and hide the function bodies.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available and the section headers of the file are displayed in
the \fIitem-list\fR.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*e f6\fR \- close list items
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht adoc 9 ,
.Ht md 9 ,
.Ht wiki 9
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
