.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : Sun Dec 15 18:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ072.9,v 2.8 2025/12/15 19:30:43 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH ts 9
.XI ts - "Typescript programming language"
.XI typescript - "Typescript programming language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
ts \- Typescript programming language
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkts.emf
\- Typescript programming language hook definition
.br
.B ts.eaf
\- Typescript programming language abbreviation file
.br
.B ts.etf
\- Typescript programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.ts\fR \- Typescript
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP "\fBHilighting\fR"
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  functions, classes variables,  logical, comments,   
strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The command
.Ht indent 2
performs automatic layout of the text.
.IP
Comments  may be formatted  using  \fC\*eo\fR,  which  reformats  the  comments
according  to  the  current  fill  paragraph.  If  a  comment  commences  with
\fC/***...\fR then the comment is automatically formatted to a box.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is  enabled  within  the Typescript file. The folds  occur  about
function, class, enums, interface and type definitions and are continued
until the next line with an closing curly brace.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Typescript mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions, classes, methods, enums, types and interfaces.
The functions can be explored with easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Typescript file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBfo\fR" (for),
"\fBif\fR", "\fBei\fR" (else if) or "\fBcl\fR" (class) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBWorking Environment\fR"
.Ht compile 3
may be invoked to rebuild the source, the user is prompted to save any files.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hyphens (--).
.br
\fB\*eq\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fB\*cf2\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  or the addition of new item list matches  is  typically
extended  using  a  file   \fBmyts.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
