.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ009.9,v 2.6 2025/08/13 08:38:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH f 9
.XI f - "Fortran File"
.XI f77 - "Fortran 77 File"
.XI f90 - "Fortran 90 File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
f, f77, f90 \- Fortran files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkf90.emf
\- Fortran hook definition
.br
.B f90.etf
\- Fortran 90 template file.
.br
.B f.etf
\- Fortran (77) template file.
.br
.B f90.eaf
\- Fortran 90 abbreviation file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.f\fR \- Fortran file
.br
\fB.f77\fR \- Fortran 77 file
.br
\fB.f90\fR \- Fortran 90 file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBf90\fR file type  templates provide simple hilighting of Fortran 77 and
Fortran 90 files, the template  provides  minimal  hilighting of both language
syntaxes, which are overloaded into the same file.
.PP
The major  difference  between  the file  types,  apart from the new  reserved
words, is the  comments. In Fortran 90 comments are  introduced  with  \fB!\fR,
while the other types use a \fBc\fR in column 0.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow functions, subroutines, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The 
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs 
performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the \fBf90\fR files. The folds occur about
\fBprogram\fR, \fBfunction\fR or \fBprocedure\fR keywords and their \fBend\fR text located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Fortran mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions, subroutine and program definitions of the Fortran file for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for MicroEmacs macro file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBwh\fR" (while),
"\fBif\fR" (if), "\fBfu\fR" (function) or "\fBpg\fR" (program) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*e\*e\fR \- Command complete.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.IP "\fBExecuting, Formatting and Linting Fortran Code\fR"
The Fortran file hook supports the 
.Ht file-exec 3 ,
the 
.Ht file-format 3
and the 
.Ht file-lint 3
macros. The tools,  compilers  which are currently  supported are "gfortran" 
as compilers and linter and "fprettify"  as formatters.
The formatter can be  installed  either  using  your  standard  package
manager system wide or, for the current user, using the Python package manager
"pip". Here an example on how to install fprettify using pip:
.RS
.CS
pip install fprettify --user
.CE 0
.RE
.SH BUGS
The Fortran hilight file is in it's infancy and a number of it's tokens may be
misplaced.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht file-exec 3 ,
.Ht file-format 3 ,
.Ht file-lint 3 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
