.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ032.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 24 21:54:42 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ032.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:10 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH m4 9
.XI m4 - "M4 Macro Processor"
.SH SYNOPSIS
me \- M4 Macro Processor
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkm4.emf
\- M4 macro processor macro file.
.br
.B m4.etf
\- M4 macro processor header template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.m4\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBM4 macro processor\fR  template performs simple hilighting of \fB.m4\fR
files. The file type is recognized by the standard extension only.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allows components of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.SH NOTES
The M4 hilighting is minimal, no other features have been implemented.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
