.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 24 22:02:47 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ056.9,v 2.6 2025/07/27 09:48:18 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH dot 9
.XI dot - "Graphviz Dot Diagram Language File"
.XI graphviz - "Graphviz Dot Diagram Language File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
dot \- Graphviz Dot Diagram Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkdot.emf
\- Graphviz Dot diagram file hook definition
.br
.B dot.eaf
\- Graphviz Dot diagram abbreviation file
.br
.B dot.etf
\- Graphviz Dot diagram template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.dot\fR \- Graphviz dot file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBGraphviz\fR  file macro  provides  simple  hilighting of Graphviz dot
diagram files.
.PP
File   recognition   is   performed   using  the   standard   file   extension
\fB.dot\fR.
.IP "\fBEditing Environment\fR"
Beside  of syntax  highlighting  the file hook  offers as well  abbreviations,
folding and support for displaying an outline of the subgraphs
of the Dot file script for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.  Further  is is  possible  to expand  abbreviations  either via short
strings using the
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command and visual inserting abbreviations using the mouse by the
.Ht abbrev-list 3
macro. 
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Graphviz dot code  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBgr\fR" (graph)
"\fBdg\fR" (digraph), "\fBsg\fR" (subgraph) or \fBnd\fR" (node)   - and  then  pressing  the
key-binding  for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the Dot files. The folds occur about
the \fBsubgraph\fR keywords located on the left-hand margin at the beginning 
of the line and the closing curly brace for this subgraph. 
The following commands are supported to show and hide the function bodies.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available and the key  constructs of the file may be listed in
the \fIitem-list\fR.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*e f6\fR \- close list items
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  is  typically   extended  using  a  file   \fBmydot.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
No serious known so far.  Indenting  after the  opening  curly  brace is not working
sometimes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH

