.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ036.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 24 22:19:53 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ036.9,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:55:04 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH texinfo 9
.XI texinfo - "GNU Texinfo documentation file"
.XI texi - "GNU Texinfo documentation file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
texinfo \-  GNU Texinfo documentation file.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hktexi.emf
\- Texinfo file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.texi\fR \- Texinfo file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB-*- texinfo -*-\fR"
Recognized by GNU Emacs and MicroEmacs.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBtexinfo\fR  file  type  template  provides  simple  hilighting  of GNU
\fBTexinfo\fR files (\fC.texi\fR),  the  template  provides
minimal  hilighting.
.PP
File recognition is performed using the standard file extensions, or the magic
string.
.SH NOTES
This template file could benefit from some of the \fChklatex.emf\fR technology
for generating the \fIinfo\fR file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
