.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : Thu Sep 25 07:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ066.9,v 1.2 2025/10/17 21:18:17 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH adoc 9
.XI adoc - "AsciiDoc Markup File"
.XI asciidoc - "AsciiDoc Markup File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
asciidoc, adoc \- AsciiDoc Markup File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkadoc.emf
\- AsciiDoc file hook definition
.br
.B adoc.eaf
\- AsciiDoc abbreviation file
.br
.B adoc.etf
\- AsciiDoc template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.asciidoc\fR, \fB.adoc\fR,  \fB.tdoc\fR \- AsciiDoc files 
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP 
\fB-!- asciidoc -!-\fR
.\"
\*(mS recognizes the magic string on any of the first 4 lines of the file. The
HTML files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBAsciiDoc\fR file hook provides a editing  environment for AsciiDoc
files. The file hook  provides  highlighting,  folding  of  sections,  document
outline using  item-list and  abbreviations. 
.PP
File  recognition  is performed  using the standard file  extension  \fB.adoc\fR,
\fB.adoc\fR or by the magic string.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for AsciiDoc code  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBfig\fR"
for a figure environment,  "\fBbib\fR" for a bibliography file,  "\fBimg\fR"  for an
image file, or "\fBco\fR" for a code chunk - and  then  pressing  the
key-binding  for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the AsciiDoc files. The folds occur about
the level 1 and 2 headers, so headers  with one or two equal  symbols at the  beginning of a
line. The following commands are supported to show and hide the function bodies.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available for level 1 and 2 headers as well as for lines starting
with TODO. These items of the file are displayed using the 
the \fIitem-list\fR command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*e f6\fR \- close list items
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht md 9 ,
.Ht typst 9 ,
.Ht wiki 9
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
