.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ025.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ025.9,v 2.6 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH html 9
.XI html - "HyperText Markup Language File" filetype
.XI htm - "HyperText Markup Language File" filetype
.SH SYNOPSIS
html \- HyperText Markup Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkhtml.emf
\- HyperText Markup Language file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.htm\fR, \fB.html\fR \- HyperText Markup Language File.
.br
\fB.htp\fR \- \fI[Special]\fR Super HTML Preprocessor file.
.br
\fB.hts\fR \- \fI[Special]\fR Super HTML file.
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB<html>\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on any of the first 4 lines of the file. The
HTML files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBhtml\fR file type template  provides  simple  hilighting of HTML files.
Additionally, \*(mE is capable of rendering simple HTML files (without graphic
content)  into the current  buffer and follow the hyper text links. The JASSPA
HTML documentation may be viewed in this way.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
HTML files may be edited or processed and rendered into the buffer. The
\fBUse Author Mode\fR option in the
.Ht buffer-setup 3
dialog determines the edit mode on loading a HTML file;
when set to '\fCN\fR' the page is rendered,  '\fCY\fR' and the raw HTML file is
presented. The default state is '\fCY\fR'.
.IP  \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*ch\fR \- Help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ca\fR \- Toggle the HTML author status.
.br
\fBhtml-spell-check-word\fR \- spell check the current word.
.IP "\fBRendered Mode\fR"
In the non-author mode, the HTML file is extracted and rendered to the buffer.
The hypertext  links may be followed by selecting them with the mouse or using
the \fC<RETURN>\fR key.
.IP
The  rendered  mode is  typically  used to check  HTML text  after it has been
authored  from the editor. The rendered  mode only caters for regular HTML 2.0
text. It does not handle tables or frames etc. \fI(use a browser)\fR.
.IP
Toggling between rendered and authoring mode, then the buffer should be killed
as the translation is only performed when the file is read.
.IP
The   non-author   mode   can  be   permanently   enabled   by   setting   the
\fBUse Author Mode\fR option in the
.Ht buffer-setup 3
dialog to  '\fCN\fR'.  When set to N any HTML files  loaded are  automatically
processed, and rendered according to their HTML content.
.SH NOTES
The
.Hl print print-buffer 2
driver may be used to generate  HTML from the  contents of the buffer.  Select
the printer  destination  as  \fIbuffer\fR,  and \fIHTML\fR as the driver. The
buffer being printed is converted to HTML and dumped in the print buffer.
.PP
\fB.hts\fR and \fB.htp\fR are computer generated extended HTML files used in the
\*(mE documentation system.
.SH BUGS
None  reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht print-buffer 2 ,
.Ht buffer-setup 3 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
