.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ007.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ007.9,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH bat 9
.XI bat - "MS-DOS Batch File"
.XI btm - "4-DOS Batch File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
bat, btm \- MS-DOS batch files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkdos.emf
\- MS-DOS hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.bat\fR \- MS-DOS Batch file
.br
\fB.btm\fR \- 4-DOS Batch file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB-!- msdos -!-\fR"
Recognized by MicroEmacs only.  Denotes a MS-DOS batch file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdos\fR file type  templates provide simple hilighting of a MS-DOS batch
file. The template  provides minimal  hilighting  support of both standard and
4-DOS batch files. 
.PP
The \fIMagic String\fR may be used within the  \fBconfig.sys\fR  file to force
hilighting of the MS-DOS configuration file.
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht ini 9 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
