.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"  			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        : 
.\"  Module        : 
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ029.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon May 24 17:38:35 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description	
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"	
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied, 
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ029.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:10 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH x86 9
.XI x86 - "Intel .x86 Assembler File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
x86 \- Intel .x86 Assembler File
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkasmx86.emf
\- Intel .x86 Assembler hook definition
.br
.B asmx86.etf
\-  Intel .x86 Assembler template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.x86\fR \- Intel .x86 Assembler File
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB-!- asmx86 -!-\fR"
Recognized by MicroEmacs only, defines the file to be a Intel x86 assembler file.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBx86\fR  file type  template  provides  simple  hilighting of Intel x86
assembler files.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow commands, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The 
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
.Ht asm 9
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH

