.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ041.9,v 1.2 2009/08/29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs 
.so me.tni
.TH xml 9
.XI xml - "Extensible Markup Language" filetype
.XI xsl - "Extensible Stylesheet Language" filetype
.XI xul - "XML User Interface Language" filetype
.XI xml-forward-tag 3 "Find the next XML tag"
.XI xml-backward-tag 3 "Find the previous XML tag"
.XI xml-goto-matching-tag 3 "Find matching opening/closing XML tag"
.XI xml-verify 3 "Verify syntax of XML file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
xml \- Extensible Markup Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkxml.emf
\- Extensible Markup Language file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.xml\fR \- Extensible Markup Language File.
.br
\fB.xsl\fR \- Extensible Stylesheet Language file.
.br
\fB.xul\fR \- XML User Interface Language file.
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB<?xml>\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on any of the first line of the file. The
XML files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBxml\fR file type template  provides  simple  hilighting of XML files.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP  \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBEmbedded Languages\fR"
Support is provided for embedded code fragments in Java and Visual Basic.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled,  the folds occur about
bracketed constructs \fB<...>\fR...\fB</...>\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBBuffer Commands\fR"
.B xml-forward-tag 
and 
.B xml-backward-tag 
are provided to advance to the next \fC<..>\fR tag in the buffer.
.IP
.B xml-goto-matching-tag
finds the tag that matches the current tag.
.IP 
.B xml-verify
verifies the syntax of the XML reporting tags that are not matched in addition
to syntax errors in the tag attributes.
.IP "\fBSpelling\fR"
Buffer spell checking is XML aware.
.IP "\fBCompletion\fR"
Completion  is enabled,  \fC</\fR\fB\*e  \*e\fR will expand to the closing tag
for the last tag that remains open.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*eh\fR \- Key binding help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hash (#).
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Format a comment
.SH BUGS
None  reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
