.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ043.9,v 1.2 2025/07/22 06:28:50 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH ada 9
.XI ada - "Ada programming language"
.XI adb - "Ada programming language"
.XI ads - "Ada programming language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Ada \- Ada programming language
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkada.emf
\- Ada programming language file hook definition
.br
.B ada.eaf
\- Ada programming language abbreviation file
.br
.B ada.etf
\- Ada programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.ada\fR, \fB.adb\fR, \fB.ads\fR \- Ada programming language
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBada\fR file type template provides simple highlighting of Ada files.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP  \fBHighlighting\fR
The highlighting  features allow commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Ada file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBfo\fR",
\fBif\fR", "\fBel\fR" or "\fBfu\fR" - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is  enabled  within  the Ada  file. The folds  occur  about
functions,  procedures or records as long as these declarations are on
one line and and at a line starting with the \fBend;\fR keyword.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Ada mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions, procedures or records for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*eh\fR \- Key binding help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hash (#).
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Format a comment
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fB\*cf2\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
