.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ018.9,v 2.8 2025/07/23 13:27:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH java 9
.XI java - "Java programming language"
.XI jav - "Java programming language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
java \- Java programming language templates
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkjava.emf
\- Java programming language hook definition
.br
.B java.eaf
\- Java programming language abbreviation file
.br
.B java.etf
\- Java programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.java\fR, \fB.jav\fR \- Java 
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBjava\fR file type  templates share much with the 
.Ht c 9 
template definitions, utilising the electric 'C' features for automatic layout
of text.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Java file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBel\fR" (else) or "\fBcl\fR" (class) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The C-Mode
.Ht indent 2
performs automatic layout of the text.
.IP
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP
Comments  may be formatted  using  \fC\*eo\fR,  which  reformats  the  comments
according  to  the  current  fill  paragraph.  If  a  comment  commences  with
\fC/***...\fR then the comment is automatically formatted to a box.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic folding is enabled within the Java files. The folds occur about braces
\fB{\fR...\fB}\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
Note that  folding does not operate on K&R style code, with the trailing  open
brace.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Java mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions and classes for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBTags\fR"
A c-tags file may be  generated  within the editor using the  \fBTools\fR  \->
\fBJava-Tools\fR \-> \fBCreate Tag File\fR.
.Ht find-tag 2
takes the user to the file using the tag information.
.IP
On invoking  the tag  generator  then the user is presented  with a dialog box
which specifies the generation  option of the tags file. The base directory of
the tags file search and tagging options may be specified to locate all of the
definitions within the code space.
.IP
The  \fBtags\fR  file is  extremely  useful  where  the user is  dealing  with
inherited  source  code  spread over  multiple  directories.  Generation  of a
recursive  tag file with all  searching  options  enabled  allows labels to be
located extremely rapidly (certainly faster than IDE environments).
.IP "\fBWorking Environment\fR"
.Ht compile 3
may be invoked to rebuild the source, the user is prompted to save any files.
.IP
.Ht rcs-file 2
is automatically  invoked if an RCS file is detected, the normal  check-in/out
operations may be performed through the editor.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fB\*eq\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  is  typically   extended  using  a  file   \fBmyjava.emf\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht c 9 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht javatags 3f ,
.Ht rcs-file 2 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
