.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ024.9,v 2.9 2025/07/15 21:03:36 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH perl 9
.XI perl - "Practical Extraction and Report Language File"
.XI pl - "Practical Extraction and Report Language File"
.XI pm - "Practical Extraction and Report Language File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
perl \- Practical Extraction and Report Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkperl.emf
\- Practical Extraction and Report Language file hook definition
.br
.B perl.etf
\- Practical Extraction and Report Language header template file
.br
.B  perl.eaf
\- Practical Extraction and Report Language abbreviation file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.pl\fR, \fB.pm\fR \- Perl file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB#![ \\t]*/.*perl\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the executable. The Perl files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.TP
\fB# -*- perl -*-\fR
.\"
\*(mE  recognizes the standard GNU Emacs magic string on the first line of the
file. The Perl files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBperl\fR  file type template  provides the hilighting,  indentation  and
tools definitions for a perl file.
.PP
File  recognition  is performed  using the standard file extension  \fB.pl\fR,
\fB.pm\fR or by the magic string.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow commands, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Perl file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBel\fR" (else) or "\fBsub\fR" (subroutine) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic   folding  is  enabled  within  perl  files.  The  folds  occur  about
\fIsub\fRroutine   definitions  located  on  the  left-hand  margin  and  their
closing brace which is located at the beginning of a line.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Perl mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
subroutines for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*e\*e\fR \- Command complete.
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- close item list
.IP \fBDebugging\fR
Debugging a perl script can be done inside \*(mS by using the
.Ht perldb 3
command.
.SH BUGS
The flexibility of the perl language does cause some hilighting  anomalies from
time to time, typically with unbalanced  quote  characters. Most of the common
exceptions  have been caught,  however there are a few syntax  sequences  that
involve quotation marks that can cause problems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht perldb 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
