.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ015.9,v 2.6 2025/08/01 12:21:07 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH awk 9
.XI awk - "AWK File"
.XI gawk - "GNU AWK File"
.XI nawk - "New AWK File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
awk \- AWK files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkawk.emf
\- AWK hook definition
.br
.B awk.etf
\- AWK Language header template file
.br
.B  awk.eaf
\- AWK Language abbreviation file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.awk\fR \- AWK file
.br
\fB.gawk\fR \- GNU AWK file
.br
\fB.nawk\fR \- New AWK file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP 
\fB#![ \\t]*/.*awk\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognises the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the executable. The awk files may be extensionless and are still recognised.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBawk\fR  file type  template  provides  simple  hilighting of AWK
files, folding, item listing and abbreviations.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow keywords, variables,comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for AWK file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBel\fR" (else) or "\fBfu\fR" (function) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic   folding  is  enabled  within  AWK  files.  The  folds  occur  about
\fIfunction\fR and \fIBEGIN\fR or \fIEND\fR block definitions  located  on  the  left-hand  margin  and  their
closing brace which is located at the beginning of a line.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The AWK mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions and the blocks for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.SH BUGS
None  reported.  Template  could  probably  benifit  from  some  form  of auto
indentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
