.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : Sun Oct 12 09:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ069.9,v 2.8 2025/10/12 09:45:24 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH nim 9
.XI nim - "Nim programming language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
nim \- Nim programming language
.SH FILES
.na
.B hknim.emf
\- Nim programming language hook definition
.br
.B nim.eaf
\- Nim programming language abbreviation file
.br
.B nim.etf
\- Nim programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.nim\fR \- Nim
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP "\fBHilighting\fR"
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical, comments,   
strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The command
.Ht indent 2
performs automatic layout of the text.
.IP
Comments  may be formatted  using  \fC\*eo\fR,  which  reformats  the  comments
according  to  the  current  fill  paragraph.  If  a  comment  commences  with
\fC/***...\fR then the comment is automatically formatted to a box.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is  enabled  within  the Nim file. The folds  occur  about
functions and classes  definition and their opening brace and  a closing  
curly brace at the  beginning  of a line.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Nim mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions and classes, if the classes package is installed of the Nim file for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Nim file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBfo\fR" (for),
"\fBif\fR", "\fBei\fR" (else if) or "\fBcl\fR" (class) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBWorking Environment\fR"
.Ht compile 3
may be invoked to rebuild the source, the user is prompted to save any files.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hashes (#).
.br
\fB\*eq\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fB\*cf2\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.IP "\fBExecuting, Formatting and Linting Nim code\fR"
The Nim file hook supports the 
.Ht file-exec 3 ,
the 
.Ht file-format 3
and the 
.Ht file-lint 3
macros. The default commands and tools are "\fInim compile --verbosity:0\fR"
for linting, "\fInim run --verbosity:0\fR" for
execting and the  "\fInimpretty\fR"  application  for formatting. The user can
as well install the  "\fInph\fR"  application  for etter  formatting on a Unix
system using the nim package manager "\fInimble\fR" like this:
.RS
.CS

     nimble install nph

.CE 0
If the application "\fInph\fR" is not available, the default "\fInimpretty\fR" 
will be used instead.
.RE
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  or the addition of new item list matches  is  typically
extended  using  a  file   \fBmynim.emf\fR.  Support  for classes can be added
by adding the \fBclasses\fR package using the nimble package manager like this:
.RS
.CS

     nimble install classes

.CE 0
If the application "\fInph\fR" is not available, the default "\fInimpretty\fR" 
will be used instead.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht file-exec 3 ,
.Ht file-format 3 ,
.Ht file-lint 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
