.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ035.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 24 22:19:53 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ035.9,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:55:03 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH MetaFont 9
.XI MetaFont - "MetaFont/MetaPost File"
.XI mp - "MetaPost File"
.XI mf - "MetaFont File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
MetaFont/MetaPost \- Meta Font and Post File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkmeta.emf
\- MetaFont/MetaPost file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.mf\fR \- MetaFont file
.br
\fB.mp\fR \- MetaPost file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBMeta\fR file type template provides simple hilighting of \fBMetaFont\fR
(\fC.mf\fR)  and  \fBMetaPost\fR  (\fC.mp\fR)  files,  the  template  provides
minimal  hilighting.  The same  hilighting  definition  is used for both  file
types.
.PP
File recognition is performed using the standard file extensions.
.SH NOTES
\s-1JASSPA\s0 have no idea as to the state of this file hook definition.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
