.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ017.9,v 2.6 2024/12/04 07:02:34 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH sh 9
.XI sh - "Bourne shell file"
.XI ksh - "Korn shell file"
.XI csh - "C-Shell file"
.XI zsh - "Z-Shell file"
.XI login - "Shell user login file"
.XI profile - "Shell user profile"
.XI tcshrc - "T-Shell start up file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
*sh \- UNIX shell files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkshell.emf
\- UNIX shell file hook definition
.br
.B shell.eaf
\- UNIX shell abbreviation file
.br
.B shell.etf
\- UNIX shell programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.sh\fR \- Bourne shell file
.br
\fB.ksh\fR \- Korn shell file
.br
\fB.csh\fR \- C-Shell file
.br
\fB.zsh\fR \- Z-Shell file
.br
\fB.login\fR \- Shell user login file
.br
\fB.profile\fR \- Shell user profile
.br
\fB.tcshrc\fR \- T-Shell start up file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP 
\fB#![ \\t]*/.*sh\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the  executable.  The  shell  files  may  be  extension  less  and  are  still
recognized.  Note that this is the typical  method of identifying  shell files
and will recognize other files not mentioned above i.e. \fBbash\fR shells.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBshell\fR  file type template  provides  simple  hilighting of the shell
files. It offers as well folding and support for displaying an outline of the
functions of the shell script for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.  Further  is is  possible  to expand  abbreviations  either via short
strings using the
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command and visual inserting abbreviations using the mouse by the
.Ht abbrev-list 3
macro. 
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the Shell files. The folds occur about
the function keyword and the closing braces \fBfunction...{\fR...\fB}\fR located
on the left-hand margin at the beginning of the line.
The following commands are supported to show and hide the function bodies.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available and the key  constructs of the file may be listed in
the \fIitem-list\fR.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for shell  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBfor\fR",
"\fBif\fR" or "\fBfun\fR" - for a Bourne shell or Z-shell function - and then
 pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*e f6\fR \- close list items
.SH NOTES
.PP  
The  file  hook  is  implemented  in  the  \fChkshell.emf\fR   file,  the
abbreviations are placed within the \fCshell.eaf\fR file, the template for the
initialization  of the new file is  defined  in the  \fCshell.etf\fR  file. To
add your own abbreviations or your own template copy the files to your config
folder and edit them within this folder.
.SH BUGS
Functions  defined without using the function  keyword can't currenly folded
and as well do not appear in the item-list outline.
.PP
There is a heavy bias towards Bourne, Korn and Zsh shells. The authors are not 
csh shell users so have probably missed a lot of csh features.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fvwm 9 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
