.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : 2025-08-22
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ061.9,v 2.6 2025/08/22 06:54:20 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH e 9
.XI e - "Euphoria File"
.XI euphoria - "Euphoria File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
e, eu, ex, exw \- Euphoria files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkeuphor.emf
\- Euphoria hook definition
.br
.B euphor.eaf
\- Euphoria abbreviation file
.br
.B euphor.etf
\- Euphoria template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.e\fR, \fB.eu\fR, \fB.ex\fR, \fB.exw\fR \- Euphoria file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBEuphoria\fR  file type mode provides  simple  hilighting of Euphoria
files, abbreviations, folding and an item-list.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Euphoria file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBel\fR" (else) or "\fBfu\fR" (function) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding  is  enabled  within  the Euphoria  file. The folds  occur  about
functions,  procedures and types as long as these declarations are on
one line and ending at a line starting with the \fBend\fR keyword.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Euphoria mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
functions, macros, types and constants for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (#).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fB\*eq\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR \- Format a comment.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fB\*cf2\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The  hilighting  and other features are  typically   extended  using  a  file   \fBmyeuphor.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
None reported so far.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
