.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 10 23:48:24 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ031.9,v 2.6 2025/07/15 21:07:27 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH vb 9
.XI vb - "Visual Basic"
.XI bas - "Visual Basic"
.XI cls - "Visual Basic"
.SH SYNOPSIS
bas, cls \- Visual Basic file
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkvb.emf
\- Visual Basic macro file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.bas\fR, \fB.cls\fR
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.na
\fB-!- msvb -!-\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBVisual Basic\fR template performs the hilighting of Visual Basic files.
The file type is recognised by the standard  extension, or by the inclusion of
the magic string.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allows components of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively. The default indentation setting is 2.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic   folding  is  enabled  within  VisualBasic  files.  The  folds  occur  about
\fIFunction\fR and \fISub\fRroutine  definitions  located  on  the  left-hand  margin  and  their
\fIEnd\fR mark which is located at the beginning of a line.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The VisualBasic mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
Functions and Subroutines for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*e\*e\fR \- Command complete.
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (Un)fold the current region.
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (Un)fold all regions.
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
