.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ019.9,v 2.7 2025/07/14 07:29:20 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH tcl 9
.XI tcl - "TCL programming language"
.XI tk - "TK programming language"
.XI wish - "TCL shell file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
tcl, tk \- TCL Programming language templates
.SH FILES
.na
.B hktcl.emf
\- TCL/TK programming language hook definition
.br
.B tcl.eaf
\- TCL/TK programming language abbreviation file
.br
.B tcl.etf
\- TCL/TK programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.tcl\fR, \fB.tk\fR \- TCL/TK file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB^#![ \\t]*/.*wish\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the executable. The tcl files may be extension less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBtcl\fR  provides  hilighting  and  automatic  formatting  features, in
addition to a number of tools to handle the file type.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled,  allowing the modification  time-stamp to be maintained
in the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Tcl file  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing   short   abbreviations   like   "\fBif\fR",
"\fBelse\fR" (else) or "\fBproc\fR" (procedure) - and then pressing the key-binding for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  
The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mE using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBTags\fR"
A C-tags file may be  generated  within the editor using the  \fBTools\fR  \->
\fBTcl-Tools\fR \-> \fBCreate Tag File\fR.
.Ht find-tag 2
takes the user to the file using the tag information.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the C and C++ files. The folds occur about
braces \fB{\fR...\fB}\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
Note that folding does not operate on K&R style code.
.IP "\fBNavigation via Item List\fR"
The Tcl mode offers beside folding as well support for displaying an outline of the
procedures, methods and classes for easy navigation using the 
.Ht item-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close item list,
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht tcltags 3f ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
