.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2025 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\"
.\" This is part of JASSPA's MicroEmacs, see the LICENSE file for licensing and
.\" copying information.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Detlef Groth
.\"  Created       : Tue Jul 29 21:00:00 2025
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ060.9,v 1.2 2025/09/19 08:53:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH typst 9
.XI typst - "Typst Markup File"
.XI typ - "Typst Markup File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
typ, typst \- Typst Markup File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hktypst.emf
\- Typst file hook definition
.br
.B typst.eaf
\- Typst abbreviation file
.br
.B typst.etf
\- Typst template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.typ\fR, \fB.typst\fR \- Typst files 
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBTypst\fR file hook provides a editing  environment for Typst
files. The file hook  provides  highlighting,  folding  of  section,  document
outline using  item-list and  abbreviations.  Fenced code blocks within triple
backticks can be highlighted using the declared code block language.
.PP
File  recognition  is performed  using the standard file  extension  \fB.typ\fR,
\fB.typst\fR or by the magic string.
.IP "\fBAbbreviations\fR"
The  installation  comes with a default  abbreviation  file for Typst code  editing
which  can  be  used  by  writing  short   abbreviations   like   "\fBfig\fR"
for a figure environment,  "\fBbib\fR" for a bibliography file,  "\fBimg\fR"  for an
image file, or "\fBco\fR" for a code chunk - and  then  pressing  the
key-binding  for the 
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3
command.  The  list  of  abbreviations  can be used  interactively  in the GUI
version of \*(mS using the 
.Ht abbrev-list 3
command.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the Typst files. The folds occur about
the level 1 and 2 headers, so headers  with one or two equal  symbols at the  beginning of a
line. The following commands are supported to show and hide the function bodies.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available and the level 1 and 2 headers of the file are displayed in
the \fIitem-list\fR.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- list items
.br
\fB\*e f6\fR \- close list items
.IP "\fBCode Chunk Highlighting\fR"
Inside  code  chunks  as  well  syntax  hilghlighting  for  a few  programming
languages  like Tcl (tcl), R (r), GraphViz Dot (dot), Python (py), SQL (sql),  MicroEmacs  macro code (emf)or
Javascript (js) is available. Here an example which should be highlighted within a
Typst file using the R file hook:
.RS
.CS
```r
x = 1
test = function () {
    print("Test")
}
```
.CE 0
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht abbrev-list 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev-handle 3 ,
.Ht item-list 3 ,
.Ht md 9 ,
.Ht wiki 9
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
