.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m1cmd001.1,v 2.7 2009-08-29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs function
.so me.tni
.TH memsdev 1
.XI memsdev - "Microsoft Developer Studio Add-in for \*(mE"
.SH NAME
memsdev - Microsoft Developer Studio Add-in for \*(mE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B memsdev.dll
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B meMsdev
is a Microsoft Visual Studio Add-In that allows  \*(mE to be integrated as
the default text editor. It will be used instead of the Visual Studio built in
editor when you double click on a file or press F4.
.PP
.B meMsdev
may not be  supplied  built  and  should be built  using  Microsoft  Developer
Studio.
.SH "INSTALLATION"
.B 1)
Copy mesdev.dll into the MicroEmacs directory i.e.
.CS
c:/Program Files/JASSPA/MicroEmacs
.CE
.B 2)
Edit  the
.Ht me32.ini 8
file in your  Windows  directory  and  identify  the
location of the  MicroEmacs  executable.  The  executable  name is used to
spawn MicroEmacs if it is not already running. The entry takes the form:-
.CS
; Identify the location of the MicroEmacs executable so that the
; Developer Studio "Add-In" can locate the executable
[Location]
exe=c:\\Program Files\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe
.CE
Change the \fIexe\fR entry to match the location and name of your executable.
.PP
.B 3)
For MS-DEV V5.0 only; from a DOS box, register the DLL using
.Hr regsvr32.exe 1
i.e.
.CS
> cd c:/Program Files/JASSPA/MicroEmacs
> regsvr32 memsdev.dll
.CE
For MS-DEV V6.0 it is not necessary to perform this registration step.
.PP
.B 4)
Start Visual Studio and goto:-
.CS
Tools
    Customize...
        Add-Ins and Macro Files
.CE
.B 5)
Click on \fIBrowse\fR and point Visual Studio to your \fBmemsdev.dll\fR file.
.PP
.B 6)
Click the check box to indicate that you want to use the Add-In, and
close the Customize dialog box.
.PP
.B 7)
You should notice the MicroEmacs tool bar showing the MicroEmacs Icon.
This invokes a dialog that allows you to attach and detach MicroEmacs
as the default editor.
.SH "USING meMsdev"
Clicking on the  MicroEmacs  Tool bar shows the meMsdev  configuration  dialog.
Check the boxes when  MicroEmacs edit session is required as default;  uncheck
the boxes if you wish to revert to the built-in dialog.
.PP
Use  Visual  Studio as normal,  and  MicroEmacs  should  almost  always  bring
MicroEmacs to the  foreground to edit the document. If a MicroEmacs is already
running then  "meMsdev"  will attach to an existing  session and will load the
file. If  MicroEmacs is not detected then a new version is spawned off and then
an attachment is made.
.SH "RUNNING A DEBUG SESSION"
.B meMsdev
does not currently provide any debugging  capability (but we are working on it
!!). To start debugging it is suggested that the Editor is decoupled
.I "(MicroEmacs Dialogue -> Uncheck Boxes)"
and work within the Developer studio.
.PP
When you have finished debugging and wish to move back to an edit session then
re-enable MicroEmacs
.I "(MicroEmacs Dialogue -> Check Boxes)"
AND close any
windows that are open within the MS-Dev environment (
.I "Window->Windows...->Select All"
and
.IR "Close  All  Windows" ).
Then  commence editing again.
.PP
While  MicroEmacs  is  attached,   selecting  any  of  the  find  file  lines,
compilation  error lines etc within the response panes will take MicroEmacs to
the specified line.
.SH "BUGS"
.B meMsdev
works by hooks  exposed by Visual  Studio. Most of the  functionality
works from the  OpenDocument  (look it up in VS 5) hook. So...If a document is
ALREADY  open in  Visual  Studio,  and you  double  click the file in the File
Browser...Emacs  will NOT come to the foreground.  Since the document was open
in the Visual Studio editor, the OpenDocument event never occurred.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.B meMsdev
is based on the initial work from
.B VisEmacs
performed by
.B "Christopher Payne"
.I "<payneca@sagian.com>"
for GNU Emacs. This software  comes under the GNU General  Public  License, as
such, meMsdev is covered by the same licensing.
.PP
Many thanks to Christopher for putting  together this  technology, this manual
page is derived from the documentation supplied with
.IR VisEmacs .
.SH LICENSING
meMsdev is free software; you can  redistribute  it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU General  Public  License as  published  by the Free  Software
Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.
.PP
meMsdev is  distributed  in the hope that it will be useful, but  WITHOUT  ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received a copy of the GNU General  Public  License along with
GNU  Emacs;  see  the  file  COPYING.  If  not,  write  to the  Free  Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.I "Microsoft Developer Studio Add-In Documentation"
.ad
.FH
