.Id $Id: m1cmd000.1,v 2.2 2001-04-30 07:42:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs function
.so me.tni
.TH me 1
.XI me - "\*(mE text editor"
.SH NAME
me - \*(mE text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B me
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIfiles ...\fR]
.sp
.B me
[\|\fB@\fR\|\fIstartupFile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-b\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-c\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-d\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-h\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-i\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-l\fR\|\fIlineNo\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-m\fR\|\fIcommand\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-n\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-0\fR\|\fIfile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-p\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-r\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-s\fR\|\fIstring\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-u\fR\|\fIusername\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-v\fR\|\fIvariable=string\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-x\fR\|]
\fIfiles...\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "\*(mE"
is a cut  down  version  of the  \s-1EMACS\s0  text  editor,  based on  Danial
Lawrences MicroEmacs.
.B "\*(mE"
is a tool for creating and changing documents,  programs, and other text files.
It is both  relatively  easy for the novice to use, but also very  powerful in
the hands of an expert. \*(mE can be extensively customized for the needs
of the individual user.
.PP
.B "\*(mE"
allows  multiple  files to be edited at the same time. The screen may be split
into  different  windows and  screens,  and text may be moved  freely from one
window on any screen to the next. Depending on the type of file being edited,
.B "\*(mE"
can change how it behaves to make editing simple. Editing standard text files,
program files and word processing documents are all possible at the same time.
.PP
There are extensive  capabilities  to make word processing and editing easier.
These  include   commands  for  string  searching  and  replacing,   paragraph
reformatting  and deleting,  automatic  word  wrapping, word move and deletes,
easy case controlling, and automatic word counts.
.PP
For complex and repetitive  editing tasks editing macros can be written. These
macros  allow  the user a great  degree  of  flexibility  in  determining  how
\fB\*(mE\fR  behaves.  Also, any and all the  commands can be used by any
key stroke by changing, or rebinding, what commands various keys invoke.
.PP
Special  features  are also  available to perform a diverse set of  operations
such as file  encryption,  automatic  backup file  generation,  entabbing  and
detabbing  lines,  executing  operating  system commands and filtering of text
through other programs.
.PP
The command line options to
.B "\*(mE"
are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fB@\fR\|\fIstartFile\fR"
Initialize  \*(mE using  \fIstartFile\fR\|[\fB.emf\fR].  The default when
omitted is \fBme.emf\fR. See 
.Ht start-up 3 
and 
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - 
for more information.
.IP \fB\-b\fR
Load next file as a binary file (binary editor mode).
.IP \fB\-c\fR
Continuation  mode. Load  \fB\*(mE\fR  last edit session,  restoring  the
buffers to their  previous  loaded state and position.  Note that history mode
must be  enabled.  The  \fB\-c\fR  option  is  generally  used with  windowing
interfaces (X-Windows/Microsoft Windows) as the shortcut icon invocation.
.IP \fB\-d\fR
Enable debug mode (for macro files).
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Show the help page (does not start the editor).
.IP \fB\-i\fR
\s-1MS-DOS\s0  versions of  \fB\*(mE\fR  only. Insert the contents of the
current screen into the \fB*scratch*\fR buffer
.IP \fB\-l\fR\|\fIlineNo\fR
Go to line  \fIlineNo\fR in the next given file. Typically used with utilities
such a
.Hr more 1
where an external editor may be invoked from other viewer.
.IP "\fB\-m\fR\|\fIcommand\fR"
Sends a  
.Hl client-server client-server 2
command  to an  existing  MicroEmacs  session.  The  command  takes  the  form
"\fBC:\fR\|\fI<client>\fR\|\fB:\fR\|\fI<command>\fR"     i.e.     to     write
"\fCHello\fR  \fCWorld\fR"  on the  message  line then a client  may issue the
command:-
.RS
.CS
; launch server
me &
; send message
me -m "C:ME:ml-write \\"Hello world\\"
.CE 0
.RE
.IP 
Note that the  \fI<command>\fR  is a  MicroEmacs  macro  command,  the  escape
sequences must be adhered to. The \fIclient-server\fR interface is typically used to
load a file, this may be performed as follows:-
.RS
.CS
me -m "C:myutility:find-file \\"/path/foo.bar\\""
.CE 0
.RE
.IP
The  absolute  path is  specified in this type of  transaction  as the current
working  directory of the active MicroEmacs  session is unknown. The \fB\-m\fR
option   de-iconize's  the  existing  editor  session  and  bring  it  to  the
foreground.
.IP \fB\-n\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0  X-Windows  environments  only and  MicroSoft  Windows  NT console
versions.  Execute   \fB\*(mE\fR  using  termcap  rather  than  X-Windows  for
\s-1UNIX\s0; typically used within an \fBxterm\fR shell to fire up \fB\*(mE\fR
for a quick  edit. For  Microsoft  Windows,  a console  window is  started  as
opposed to a GUI window.
.IP "\fB\-o\fR\|\fI<file>\fR"
Use already  running version of \*(mE to load the  \fI<file>\fR, if it exists,
otherwise  start a new  editor  session.  This  uses  the  \fIclient-server\fR
interface to push the new file into the existing editor session. Refer to the 
.Hl "Client-Server Interface" client-server 2
for details.
.IP \fB\-p\fR
Pipe \fIstdin\fR into buffer \fB*stdin*\fR, when saved output to \fIstdout\fR,
following is a simple example which changes '\fCa\fR's to '\fCb\fR's:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
        define-macro start-up
            find-buffer "*stdin*"
            beginning-of-buffer
            replace-string "a" "b"
            save-buffer
            quick-exit
        !emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.IP
This can be used in the following manner:
.CS
        me "@testpipe.emf" < foo.a > foo.b
.CE 0
.IP \fB\-r\fR
Read-only, all buffers will be in view mode
.IP \fB\-s\fR\|\fIstring\fR
Search for string "\fIstring\fR" in the current buffer. e.g.
.C "me -sfoo bar"
starts  \fB\*(mE\fR,  loads file  \fCbar\fR  and  initiates  a search for
\fIfoo\fR.  The cursor is left at the end of the string if located,  otherwise
at the top of the buffer.
.IP \fB\-u\fR\|\fIusername\fR
Set the current user name to \fIusername\fR before \*(mS is initialized. This
is done by setting the environment variable
.Ht MENAME 5
to the given value.
.IP \fB\-v\fR\|\fIvariable=string\fR
Assign the  \*(mE  \fIvariable\fR  with  \fIstring\fR.  The assignment is
performed before the buffers are loaded. Typically used to change the start-up
characteristics of the startup file(s).
.IP \fB\-x\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0  environments. Disable the capture of signals. \fB\*(mE\fR by
default  captures  an handles  all illicit  signal  interrupts.  The option is
enabled when  debugging  the source code allowing  exception  conditions to be
trapped within the debugger.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by \fB\*(mE\fR.
.IP \fBDISPLAY\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0 environments running X-Windows only. The identity of the X-Windows
server. Typically set to \fBunix:0.0\fR, refer to the X-Windows  documentation
for details of this environment variable.
.IP "\fBMENAME\fR and \fBLOGNAME\fR"
The identity of the user, \fB$MENAME\fR takes precedence over  \fB$LOGNAME\fR.
\fB$LOGNAME\fR variable is generally defined within \s-1UNIX\s0 as part of the
login script. The variables are used to determine which start-up configuration
to use in the initialization of \fB\*(mE\fR (\fI$MENAME\fR.erf).
.IP
Non-\s-1UNIX\s0  platforms  usually need to explicitly  set the  \fB$MENAME\fR
environment  variable to identify the aforementioned  files. for \s-1MS-DOS\s0
and Microsoft  Windows this is typically  performed in the  \fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR
file.
.IP \fBPATH\fR
The \fB$PATH\fR  environment  variable is used on most operating  systems as a
search path for executable files. This \fB$PATH\fR  environment  variable must
be defined with \fB\*(mE\fR on the search path. Under \s-1UNIX\s0 this is
set in the \fC.login\fR, \fC.cshrc\fR or \fC.profile\fR file i.e.
.RS
.IP
export PATH $PATH:/usr/name/me
.RE
.IP
Within  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 or Microsoft  Windows  environments it is defined in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file. e.g.
.RS
.IP
set PATH=%PATH%;c:\\me
.RE
.IP
\fB\*(mE\fR  utilizes information in the \fB$PATH\fR environment variable
to locate the start-up files, dictionaries etc.
.IP \fBTERM\fR
The terminal identification sting. In \s-1UNIX\s0 environments the environment
variable  \fB$TERM\fR is set to "\fCvt...\fR", in this case it is assumed that
the  machine is a server,  and the host  cannot  support X (see  command  line
option \fB\-n\fR).
.IP
In  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  the  environment  variable  is  usually  set to define  the
graphics  adapter mode.  \fB%TERM\fR  is assigned a string,  understood by the
\fCme.emf\fR  start-up  file, to set the  graphics  mode.  Predefined  strings
include:-
.RS
.IP \fBE80x50\fR
Initiates an 80 column by 50 line screen.
.IP \fBE80x25\fR
Initiates an 80 column by 25 line screen.
.IP \fIuserDefined\fR
A user defined string to set an explicit  graphics card mode. The operation is
dependent upon the support offered by the graphics adapter.
.RE
.IP \fBMEPATH\fR
\*(mE uses the environment variable  \fC$MEPATH\fR as the directory(s) used to
search for the macro files (see
.Ht emf 8 ).
Within  the  \s-1UNIX\s0  \fC$MEPATH\fR  is a  semi-colon  separated  list  of
directories  which are used to search for the \*(mE  macro  files. The path is
searched from left to right. The environment  variable is typically defined in
the in the \fC.login\fR, \fC.cshrc\fR or \fC.profile\fR file i.e.
.RS
.IP
export MEPATH /usr/name/me/macros:/usr/local/microemacs
.RE
.IP
The default when omitted is \fC/usr/local/microemacs\fR.
.IP
Within  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 or Microsoft  Windows  environments it is defined in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file. e.g.
.RS
.IP
set MEPATH=c:\\me\\username;\\me\\macros
.RE
.IP
There is no default  location in these  environments.  For  Microsoft  Windows
environments refer to 
.Ht me32.ini 8
for a method of setting up the  \fC$MEPATH\fR  from the windows  configuration
file.
.IP \fBINFOPATH\fR
\*(mE uses the environment  variable  \fC$INFOPATH\fR as the directory(s) used
to search for GNU \fBInfo\fR files. Within the \s-1UNIX\s0  \fC$INFOPATH\fR is
a semi-colon  separated  list of directories  which are used to search for the
\*(mE macro  files. The path is searched  from left to right. The  environment
variable is  typically  defined in the in the  \fC.login\fR,  \fC.cshrc\fR  or
\fC.profile\fR file i.e.
.RS
.IP
export INFOPATH /usr/local/info:$HOME/info
.RE
.IP
The default when omitted is \fC/usr/local/info\fR.
.IP
Within  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 or Microsoft  Windows  environments it is defined in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file. e.g.
.RS
.IP
set MEPATH=c:\\usr\\local\\info
.RE
.IP
There is no default  location in these  environments.  For  Microsoft  Windows
environments refer to 
.Ht me32.ini 8
for a method of setting up the \fC$INFOPATH\fR from the windows  configuration
file.
.SH FILES
All of the macro files and  dictionaries  are located in the  \fB\*(mS\fR
home directory. The standard file extensions that are utilized are:-
.TP
.Hl ".eaf" eaf 8
.\"
\fB\*(mE\fR  abbreviation file, defines completion definitions for buffer
dependent text expansion.
.TP
.Hl ".edf" edf 8
.\"
A \fB\*(mE\fR spelling dictionary. \fI<language>\fR\fB.edf\fR provide language
specific   dictionaries;   \fI$LOGNAME\fR\fB.edf\fR   is   personal   spelling
dictionary.
.TP
.Hl ".ehf" ehf 8
.\"
\fB\*(mE\fR  help file  information.  On-line help information for emacs,
the main file is \fCme.ehf\fR.
.TP
.Hl ".emf" emf 8
.\"
A \fB\*(mE\fR macro file. The following classes of macro file exist:
.RS
.IP \fBme.emf\fR
The default startup file.
.IP \fI<platform>.emf\fR
A  platform   specify   startup  file,  these  include   \s-1UNIX   generic\s0
(\fCunixterm.emf\fR),  \s-1UNIX\s0 specific  (\fCirix.emf\fR,  \fChpux.emf\fR,
\fCunixwr1.emf\fR,  \fClinux.emf\fR,  \fCsunos.emf\fR  etc), Microsoft Windows
(\fCwin32.emf\fR), \s-1MS-DOS\s0 (\fCdos.emf\fR).
.IP "\fBhk\fR\fIxxxxxx\fR\fB.emf\fR"
Buffer  context  specific  hook files to  initialize  a buffer with macros and
highlighting  appropriate  to the contents of the file type. e.g. 'C' language
editing  (\fChkc.emf\fR),  N/Troff typesetting  (\fChknroff.emf\fR),  UNIX
Manual page display (\fChkman.emf\fR), Makefiles (\fChkmake.emf\fR), etc.
.RE
.TP
.Hl ".erf" erf 8
.\"
Registry files, used to retain personal information, users history in the file
etc.
.TP
.Hl ".etf" etf 8
.\"
Template  files used to seed new files.  Typically  contains  standard  header
information,  copyright notices etc. that are placed at the head of files. The
\'C' programming language is called \fCc.etf\fR
.SH "MICROSOFT WINDOWS"
Microsoft  Windows environments should refer to 
.Ht me32.ini 8
for a method of  setting up the  environment  variables  without  editing  the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht emf 8 ,
.Ht erf 8 ,
.Hr emacs 1 " [GNU],"
.Hr more 1 ,
.Hr vi 1 .
.br
.Hl "Client-Server Interface" client-server 2 .
.br
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - .
.ad
.FH
