.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\" Created By: Jon Green
.\"
.Id $Id: m1cmd002.1,v 1.3 2005-10-08 10:02:28 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs function
.so me.tni
.TH ne 1
.XI ne - "\*(nE text editor"
.SH NAME
ne - \*(nE text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B ne
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIfiles ...\fR]
.sp
.B ne
[\|\fB@\fR\|\fIstartupFile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-a\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-b\fR\ \|\fIfile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-B\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-c\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-h\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-k\fR[\|\fIkey\fR\|]\ \|\fIfile\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-l\fR\|\fIlineNo\fR\|[\fB:\fIcolumn\|\fR]]
[\|\fB\-R\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-r\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-s\fR\|\fIstring\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-u\fR\|\fIusername\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-v\fR\|\fIvariable=string\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-V\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-x\fR\|]
[\|\fB\-y\fR\ \|\fIfile\fR\|]
\fIfiles...\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B "\*(nE"
is a cut down version of 
.B \*(mE 
\s-1EMACS\s0  text  editor,  based on  Danial
Lawrences \*(mS.
.PP
.B "\*(nE"
provides the basic \s-1EMACS\s0  editor functions,  allowing multiple files to
be edited at the same time. The screen may be split into different windows and
screens,  and text may be moved  freely  from one  window on any screen to the
next. The  editor  typically  runs in a  console  mode and is set up for basic
system administration work or system bring up, macro files are not expected to
be present, the system is still  capable of running a macro file (with limited
capability),  the default  start-up  file is  \fCne.emf\fR  and is executed at
start-up if present.
.PP
The command line options to
.B "\*(nE"
are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fB@\fR\|\fIstartFile\fR"
Initialize \*(nE using \fIstartFile\fR\|[\fB.emf\fR]. The default when omitted
is \fBne.emf\fR. See 
.Ht start-up 3 
and 
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - 
for more information.
.IP \fB-a\fR
Toggle the auto-save mode, this toggles the 
.Ht auto 2m 
mode. 
.IP
\fBNote:\fR  that \*(nS  disables  auto save mode by default and \*(mS enables
auto save mode by default.  The  behavior of \fB-a\fR is  therefore  different
between the two editors. 
.IP \fB\-b\fR
Load next file as a binary file (binary editor mode, uses
.Ht binary 2m
buffer mode).
.IP \fB-B\fR
Toggle the backup mode, this toggles the 
.Ht backup 2m 
mode. 
.IP
\fBNote:\fR  that \*(nS  disables  backup  mode by default  and \*(mS  enables
backup  mode by  default.  The  behavior  of \fB-B\fR is  therefore  different
between the two editors. 
.IP \fB\-c\fR
Continuation  mode. Load \fB\*(nE\fR last edit session,  restoring the buffers
to their  previous  loaded state and position.  Note that history mode must be
enabled. The  \fB\-c\fR  option is generally  used with  windowing  interfaces
(X-Windows/Microsoft Windows) as the shortcut icon invocation.
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Show the help page (does not start the editor).
.IP \fB\-k\fR[\fIkey\fR]
Load next file as an encrypted file (uses
.Ht crypt 2m
buffer  mode). The  optional  adjoining  argument  can be used to specify  the
decrypting  key, if this argument is not specify the user will be prompted for
it on start-up. 
.IP \fB\-l\fR\|\fIlineNo\fR
Go to line \fIlineNo\fR in the next given file and optionally to the specified
column number. The column may be omitted if not required.  Typically used with
utilities such a
.Hr more 1
where an external editor may be invoked from other viewer.
.IP \fB\-n\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0  X-Windows  environments  only and  MicroSoft  Windows  NT console
versions.  Execute   \fB\*(mE\fR  using  termcap  rather  than  X-Windows  for
\s-1UNIX\s0; typically used within an \fBxterm\fR shell to fire up \fB\*(mE\fR
for a quick  edit. For  Microsoft  Windows,  a console  window is  started  as
opposed to a GUI window.  This  option is not present if a console  version of
the application has been built.
.IP \fB\-R\fR
Reverse the default video color scheme. The default  foreground  color becomes
the background color and vice versa. This only affects the built in scheme and
not any schemes defined in any start-up file.
.IP \fB\-r\fR
Read-only, all buffers will be in view mode
.IP \fB\-s\fR\|\fIstring\fR
Search for string "\fIstring\fR" in the current buffer. e.g.
.C "ne -sfoo bar"
starts  \fB\*(mE\fR,  loads file  \fCbar\fR  and  initiates  a search for
\fIfoo\fR.  The cursor is left at the end of the string if located,  otherwise
at the top of the buffer.
.IP \fB\-u\fR\|\fIusername\fR
Set the current user name
.Ht $user-name 5 
to \fIusername\fR before \*(nS is initialized. 
.IP \fB\-v\fR\|\fIvariable=string\fR
Assign the \*(mE \fIvariable\fR with \fIstring\fR. The assignment is performed
before  the  buffers  are  loaded.  Typically  used  to  change  the  start-up
characteristics of the startup file(s).
.IP \fB\-V\fR
Print the name and version of \*(nS. i.e.
.IP
\fCorac% ne -V\fR
.br
\fCNanoEmacs 05 - Date 2005/02/24 - sunos\fR
.IP \fB\-x\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0  environments. Disable the capture of signals. \fB\*(mE\fR by
default  captures  an handles  all illicit  signal  interrupts.  The option is
enabled when  debugging  the source code allowing  exception  conditions to be
trapped within the debugger.
.IP \fB\-y\fR
Load next file as a reduced binary file (uses
.Ht rbin 2m
buffer mode).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables are used by \fB\*(nE\fR.
.IP \fBDISPLAY\fR
\s-1UNIX\s0 environments running X-Windows only. The identity of the X-Windows
server. Typically set to \fBunix:0.0\fR, refer to the X-Windows  documentation
for details of this environment variable.
.IP "\fBMENAME\fR"
.Ht $MENAME 5 
is used to override the identity of the user
.Ht $user-name 5 .
The variable may be used to determine which start-up  configuration  to use in
the initialization of \fB\*(mE\fR (\fI$user-name\fR.erf). This is ignored if 
the \fB-u\fR option is specified on the command line.
.IP
Non-\s-1UNIX\s0  platforms  usually need to explicitly  set the  \fB$MENAME\fR
environment  variable to identify the aforementioned  files. for \s-1MS-DOS\s0
and early  versions of  Microsoft  Windows this is typically  performed in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file.
.IP \fBPATH\fR
The \fB$PATH\fR  environment  variable is used on most operating  systems as a
search path for executable files. This \fB$PATH\fR  environment  variable must
be defined with \fB\*(mE\fR on the search path. Under \s-1UNIX\s0 this is
set in the \fC.login\fR, \fC.cshrc\fR or \fC.profile\fR file i.e.
.RS
.IP
export PATH $PATH:/usr/name/ne
.RE
.IP
Within  \s-1MS-DOS\s0 or Microsoft  Windows  environments it is defined in the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR file. e.g.
.RS
.IP
set PATH=%PATH%;c:\\ne
.RE
.IP
\fB\*(mE\fR  utilizes information in the \fB$PATH\fR environment variable
to locate the start-up files, dictionaries etc.
.IP \fBTERM\fR
The terminal identification sting. In \s-1UNIX\s0 environments the environment
variable  \fB$TERM\fR is set to "\fCvt...\fR", in this case it is assumed that
the  machine is a server,  and the host  cannot  support X (see  command  line
option \fB\-n\fR).
.IP
In  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  the  environment  variable  is  usually  set to define  the
graphics  adapter mode.  \fB%TERM\fR  is assigned a string,  understood by the
\fCme.emf\fR  start-up  file, to set the  graphics  mode.  Predefined  strings
include:-
.RS
.IP \fBE80x50\fR
Initiates an 80 column by 50 line screen.
.IP \fBE80x25\fR
Initiates an 80 column by 25 line screen.
.IP \fIuserDefined\fR
A user defined string to set an explicit  graphics card mode. The operation is
dependent upon the support offered by the graphics adapter.
.RE
.TP \fB$MEINSTALLPATH\fR
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 
is an environment  variable that overrides any internally  defined search path
for \*(nS system macros and defines the root  directory(s) of the \*(nS system
macros. The presence of the environment variable affects 
.Ht $search-path 5 .
.TP \fB$MEUSERPATH\fR
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is an  environment  variable  that defines the users  private  directory  
where user configuration files such as
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.emf\fR,
.Hl $user-name $user-name 5 \fB.erf\fR
and personal spelling  dictionaries are stored. This is an absolute  directory
path. The environment variable sets the \*(nS variable
.Ht $user-path 5 .
.IP \fBMEPATH\fR
.Ht $MEPATH 5
is an environment variable that may be used to define the absolute search path
for \*(nS macro files and affects the setting of
.BR $search-path .
The path should include the system macros  location(s)  and should include the
user directory location
.Ht $user-path 5
as the first path when the environment variable
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is not defined. If  \fB$MEUSERPATH\fR  is defined  then this path name appears
before the \fB$MEPATH\fR variable to define the user directory location.
.B $MEPATH
is not searching, so \s-1ALL\s0 directories to be searched must be included in
the path specification.
.IP
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5
is the preferred method used to defined the user directory.
.SH FILES
All of the macro files and  dictionaries  are located in the \fB\*(nS\fR  home
directory. The standard file extensions that are utilized are:-
.TP
.Hl ".emf" emf 8
.\"
A \fB\*(mE\fR macro file. The following classes of macro file exist:
.RS
.IP \fBne.emf\fR
The default startup file.
.RE
.SH "MICROSOFT WINDOWS"
Microsoft  Windows environments should refer to 
.Ht me32.ini 8
for a method of  setting up the  environment  variables  without  editing  the
\fCAUTOEXEC.BAT\fR configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 ,
.Ht emf 8 ,
.Hr emacs 1 " [GNU],"
.Hr more 1 ,
.Ht me 1 ,
.Hr vi 1 .
.br
.Hl "Command Line Filters" filters - .
.ad
.FH
