.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd161.2,v 1.1 2002-10-16 22:30:10 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH create-frame 2
.XI create-frame - "Create a new frame"
.SH NAME
create-frame \- Create a new frame
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B create-frame
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcreate-frame\fR  creates a new frame for the current \*(mS  session.  \*(mS
support  the  creation of  'internal'  multiple  frames on all  platforms  and
\&'external'  frames on  windowing  platforms  (such as Windows and XTerm). An
external  frame creates a new OS window so both the existing frame and the new
frame  are  visible,  whereas  an  internal  frame  uses the same OS window or
console which means that the existing  frame is hidden and the new frame takes
its place.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR can be used to define which type of frame is to
be  created. If an  argument  of \fC1\fR is given (the  default  argument)  an
external  frame will be created,  whereas an internal frame will be created if
an argument of \fC0\fR is given.
.SH NOTES
Internal frames can only be accessed via the
.Ht next-frame 2
command, external frames can usually be accessed via the OS as well.
.PP
\*(mS is not  multi-threaded  in that  only one frame can be active at any one
time  (the  complexity  of being  able to run a  command  in one  frame  while
editing in another  would rapidly lead it away from the 'Micro'  status). This
means that if a command is left active (such as a search) in one frame and the
focus is  changed to another  the input is 'sent' to the frame with the active
command and the message '[NOT FOCUS]' will appear in the  message-line  of the
frame with the OS focus.
.PP
\fBcreate-frame\fR  may be useful in macros that rely on a window layout, this
is because they can preserve the users  current  window layout by creating and
new internal frame in which to run.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht delete-frame 2 ,
.Ht next-frame 2 .
.ad
.FH
