.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd088.2,v 2.6 2006-08-19 13:23:22 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|buffer
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*cn\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH change-buffer-name 2
.XI change-buffer-name - "\*(C0Change name of current buffer"
.SH NAME
change-buffer-name \- Change name of current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B change-buffer-name
"\fI\&buffer-name\fR\&" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B change-buffer-name
changes the name of the current buffer to \fI\&buffer-name\fR\&.  Buffer names
must be unique as they act as the identity  handle. By default the buffer name
is derived from the buffer's  file name  excluding  the path. This can lead to
conflicts, when editing files with the same name and different paths, in which
case a counter  is  appended  to the end of the  buffer  name to make the name
unique. For example:
.CS
File Name               Buffer Name

/etc/file.c             file.c
/tmp/file.c             file.c<1>
.CE
The numeric argument \fIn\fR is a bit-mask and is interpreted as follows:
.IP \fC0x01\fR
By   default,   or   an    argument   is    specified    with   bit   1   set,
\fBchange-buffer-name\fR fails if a buffer with the given name already exists.
This  behavior  can be changed by  specifying  an argument  with the first bit
cleared, e.g. 0, in which case if a buffer with that name already  exists then
a counter as appended.
.IP \fC0x02\fR
Forces the buffer to adopt the given name \fIbuffer-name\fR, changing the name
of any existing buffer if required.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $buffer-fname 5 ,
.Ht change-file-name 2 ,
.Ht delete-buffer 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
