.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd091.2,v 2.8 2006-08-19 16:00:00 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|buffer
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cXx\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cXb\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH next-buffer 2
.XI next-buffer - "\*(C0Switch to the next buffer"
.XI find-buffer - "\*(C1Switch to a named buffer"
.SH NAME
.Me |next-buffer
next-buffer \- Switch to the next buffer
.br
.Me |find-buffer
find-buffer \- Switch to the next buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBnext-buffer\fR \*(C0
.br
.I n
.B find-buffer
"\fIbuffer-name\fR" \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B next-buffer
switches  to the  \fIn\fRth  next  buffer in the  buffer  list in the  current
window,  the  default  \fIn\fR is  \fC1\fR,  if \fIn\fR is  negative  then the
\fC0-\fR\fIn\fRth  previous buffer is selected. If \fC0\fR or a number greater
than the number of buffers is specified then the command fails.
.PP
.B find-buffer
switches to buffer  "\fIbuffer-name\fR"  in the current  window. If the buffer
does not exist and a zero argument \fIn\fR is supplied then the command fails.
If the buffer does not exist but no argument or a positive argument \fIn\fR is
specified  then a new  buffer is  created,  at which  point the  file-hook  is
evaluated.
.PP
If a negative argument \fIn\fR is given to  \fBfind-buffer\fR  then the buffer
will be hidden. Any window  displaying  "\fIbuffer-name\fR"  will find another
buffer to display. This functionality is often used with the
.Ht hide 2m
buffer mode. If a value of -1 is given then the buffer will not be hidden in a
window whose
.Ht $window-flags 5
are set to lock the buffer to the  window. If a value of less than -1 is given
then the buffer is hidden from all windows.
.PP
The numeric argument of
.B find-buffer
is treated as a bit mask as follows:
.IP "\fC0x01\fR"
Bit set then the  buffer is  created  if it does not exist. Bit clear then the
command fails if the buffer does not exist.
.IP "\fC0x02\fR"
Locate the buffer   whose   buffer   file  name   matches  the   argument
\fIbuffer-name\fR.
.IP "\fC0x04\fR"
Bit set then an inactive  buffer (i.e. a buffer whose  contents  have not been
loaded) shall remain  inactive and the buffer  contents  shall not be restored
from  file.  This bit  setting  is used to allow the  buffer  variables  to be
interrogated  without  causing  the file to load.  Setting of this bit must be
used with care.
.IP "\fC0x08\fR"
Bit set causes the buffer to be hidden.
.PP
If the current buffer has an \fI$buffer-ehook\fR command set then this command
is  executed  before  the new buffer is  switched  in. If the new buffer has a
$\fIbuffer-bhook\fR  command set then this  command is automatically  executed
after the new buffer is switched in but before control returns to the user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht next-window-find-buffer 2 ,
.Ht hide 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
