.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd095.2,v 2.7 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cXo\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cXp\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH next-window 2
.XI next-window - "\*(C0Move the cursor to the next window"
.XI previous-window - "\*(C1Move the cursor to the previous window"
.SH NAME
.Me |next-window
next-window \- Move the cursor to the next window
.br
.Me |previous-window
previous-window \- Move the cursor to the previous window
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBnext-window\fR \*(C0
.br
\fIn\fR \fBprevious-window\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnext-window\fR  makes  the next  window  down the  current  window,  if the
current  window  is the last one in the frame the first one is  selected.  The
numeric argument \fIn\fR can be used to modify this default behaviour, it is a
bitwise flag where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If there is no 'next' window  because this is the last then if this bit is set
the search for the next window is allow to continue  with the first  window of
the frame. As the  default  argument  \fIn\fR is \fC1\fR  this is the  default
behaviour.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
When this bit is set windows whose
.Ht $window-flags 5
are set to be ignored by this  command  are not  skipped.  The  setting of bit
\fC0x010\fR of a windows  \fB$window-flags\fR  will make the default action of
this  command  skip it which  means the the command may not simply  select the
next window but the next window without this flag set. Setting this bit of the
numeric argument will force the command to always select the next window.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
When set the search for the next window starts at the first window  instead of
the current  window, this can be used to find the first  window in the current
frame.
.PP
.B previous-window
makes the next  window up the  current  window. The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR
has the same  effect  on this  command  as for  \fBnext-window\fR  except  bit
\fB0x04\fR starts the search at the last window of the frame.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example  visits every window in the current frame  printing the
buffer it displays with a second pause between each one:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; go to the first window
!force 6 next-window
!while $status
    1000 ml-write $buffer-bname
    ; go to the next window - fail if this is the last
    !force 2 next-window
!done
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
Both commands fail if a suitable  window cannot be for, see the example on how
this can be used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht next-window-find-buffer 2 ,
.Ht next-window-find-file 2 ,
.Ht set-position 2 ,
.Ht goto-position 2 ,
.Ht $window-flags 5 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
