.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd078.2,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:10:27 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search
.ds C0 "(\fB\*cs\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*cr\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH isearch-forward 2
.XI isearch-forward - "\*(C0Search forward incrementally (interactive)" essential
.XI isearch-backward - "\*(C1Search backwards incrementally (interactive)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|isearch-forward"
isearch-forward \- Search forward incrementally (interactive)
.br
.Me "|isearch-backward"
isearch-backward \- Search backwards incrementally (interactive)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBisearch-forward\fR \*(C0
.br
\fBisearch-backward\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B isearch-forward
provides  an  interactive  search in the forward  direction.  This  command is
similar to
.Ht search-forward 2 ,
but it processes the search as each character of the input string is typed in.
This allows the user to only use as many key-strokes as are needed to uniquely
specify the string being searched.
.PP
The follow keys can be used at the start of an incremental search only:
.IP
\fC\*cs\fR \- Search for last string.
.br
\fC\*cm\fR \- Perform a search-forward instead.
.br
\fC\*ep\fR,
.br
\fC\*en\fR \- Scroll through history list etc (See
.Ht ml-bind-key 2 ).
.LP
Several control characters are active while isearching:
.IP "\fB\*cs\fR or \fB\*(cX\fR"
Skip to the next occurrence of the current string
.IP \fB\*cr\fR
Skip to the last occurrence of the current string
.IP \fB\*ch\fR
Back up to the last match (possibly deleting the last character on the search string)
.IP \fB\*cw\fR
Insert the next word into the search string.
.IP \fB\*cg\fR
Abort the search, return to start.
.IP "\fB\*e\fR or \fB\*cm\fR"
End the search, stay here
.LP
.B isearch-backward
is the same as \fBisearch-forward\fR, but it searches in the reverse direction.
.PP
For both  commands  when the end of the buffer is  reached, an alarm is raised
(bell  etc.) a  further  search  request  (\fC\*cs\fR)  causes  the  search to
commence  from the start of the  buffer.
.SH NOTES
The
.Ht ml-bind-key 2
bindings are used.
.PP
The incremental search supports buffer modes
.Ht exact 2m
and
.Ht magic 2m .
.SH BUGS
Due to the dynamic nature of active
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2
buffers  the search  history  cannot be stored in the same way (list of fixed
locations).  As a result  the search  history is stored as a list of  searches
which are not guaranteed to be consistent.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht exact 2m ,
.Ht hunt-forward 2 ,
.Ht magic 2m ,
.Ht ml-bind-key 2 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 .
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
