.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m2cmd072.2
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd072.2,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:27:37 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|registry
.so me.tni
.TH find-registry 2
.XI find-registry - "Index search of a registry sub-tree"
.SH NAME
find-registry \- Index search of a registry sub-tree.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B find-registry
"\fIroot\fR"
"\fIsubkey\fR"
\fIindex\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B find-registry
performs  an  indexed  search of a registry  sub-tree  allowing  the caller to
determine  the names of the children  that exist as sub-nodes of the  specified
node.  \fIroot\fR  and  \fIsub-key\fR  form the root whose  children are to be
determined,  \fIsubkey\fR may be specified as the null-string (\fC""\fR) if an
absolute registry path is specified.  \fIindex\fR is a value from  \fC0..n\fR and identifies the index
number of the child node. The name of the child node is returned in
.Ht $result 5
if one exists, otherwise an error status is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
The   following   example   comes  from   \fCaddrbook.emf\fR   and  shows  how
\fBfind-registry\fR  is used to iterate  through  entries in the address book.
Note that \fBfind-registry\fR is used with
.Ht !force 4
and the
.Ht $status 5
of the call is tested to determine if the invocation succeeded.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!force find-registry "/AddressBook" "Names" #l0
!if $status
    set-variable #l1 $result
    76 insert-string "_"
    2 newline
    insert-string &spr "Section: %s" #l1
    newline
    ; Iterate through all of the entries.
    set-variable #l2 0

    !repeat
        !force #l2 ab-buffer
        !if $status
            set-variable #l2 &add #l2 1
        !endif
    !until &not $status
    set-variable #l0 &add #l0 1
    !goto next
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht get-registry 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2 ,
.Ht read-registry 2 ,
.Ht set-registry 2 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
