.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd117.2,v 2.2 2001-04-30 07:42:35 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|scuts
.so me.tni
.TH global-abbrev-file 2
.XI global-abbrev-file - "Set global abbreviation file"
.XI buffer-abbrev-file - "Set buffers' abbreviation file"
.SH NAME
global-abbrev-file, buffer-abbrev-file \- Set abbreviation file(s).
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|global-abbrev-file"
.I n
.B global-abbrev-file
"\fIabbrev-file\fR"
.br
.Me "|buffer-abbrev-file"
.I n
.B buffer-abbrev-file
"\fIabbrev-file\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The abbreviation  files allow the user to define a set of short-cut  expansion
text, whereby a short sequence of  chararacters  are associated  with a longer
text  segment.  When the  short  sequence  is  entered,  the user may elect to
maually  expand the sequnce with the associated  replacement  text.  Provision
for cursor positioning may be made in the replacement text.
.PP
.B buffer-abbrev-file
sets the current buffer's  abbreviation  file (limit of one abbreviation  file
per  buffer).  \fBbuffer-abbrev-file\fR  does the  minimal  amount  of work to
increase speed at load-up. The first use of
.Ht expand-abbrev 2
attempts to load the abbreviation file at which point errors may be reported.
.PP
An  argument  \fIn\fR  of zero,  forces  the  buffer  abbreviation  file to be
uncached, such that the next abbreviation that is expanded forces a re-load of
the abbreviation  file. This is typically only used when an abbreviation  file
is being constructed and tested.
.PP
.B global-abbrev-file
assigns a global set of abbreviations  accross  \s-1ALL\s0  buffers, such that
the  abbreviation  is  available  regardless  of the current  buffer type. The
global    abbreviation    file    has   a   lower    presidence    than    the
\fBbuffer-abbrev-file\fR,       hence       the       currently       assigned
\fBbuffer-abbrev-file\fR is searched before the \fBglobal-abbrev-file\fR. 
.PP
Similarly for  \fBglobal-abbrev-file\fR, an argument of zero forces the global
abbreviation file to be uncached and re-loaded on the next use.
.PP
An abbreviation  is a  string which  is  expanded to  an alternate  form, e.g.
.sp
.RS
\fBe.g.\fR -> \fBfor example\fR
.RE
.br
or
.br
.RS
\fBPI\fR -> \fB3.1415926536\fR
.RE
.br
etc.
.PP
An  abbreviation  file is an  ordinary  text file with a strict  format, it is
loaded only once at the first call to
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ,
from then on it reminds buffered. An abbreviation file has an abbreviation per
line,  they  cannot  use  multiple  lines.  This  is  not a draw  back  as the
expansion string is executed using
.Ht execute-string 2
so any \*(mE command may also be called.
.PP
For   example   the   following    expansion   string   inserts   the   string
"\fC!continue\fR"  and a  newline:-
.RS
.PP
"\fC!abort\\r\fR"
.RE
.PP
Note that '\fC\\r\fR' is used instead of '\fC\\n\fR' as \fBC-m\fR is bound to
.Ht newline 2
and not  \fBC-j\fR.  The  expansion  string  can also make use of a few useful
abbreviations:-
.RS
.IP \fB\\\\p\fR
Mark the current position (expanded to "\fCC-x C-a P\fR")
.IP \fB\\\\P\fR
Move cursor to the marked position (expanded to "\fCC-x a P\fR")
.RE
.PP
See help on
.Ht execute-string 2
for more useful abbreviations.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  abbreviation  must be on the left hand side followed by at least 1 space,
the expansion string must then be on the same line in quotes. So for the given
examples, the abbreviation file would be:
.CS
|
|e.g. "for example"
|PI   "3.1415926536"
|
.CE
The following abbreviation could be used for a C \fIif-else\fR statement.
.CS
|
|if "if(\\p)\\r{\\r\\r}\\relse\\r{\\r\\r}\\r\\P"
|
.CE
This is particularly useful for email address, e.g.
.CS
|
|JA "\\"JASSPA\\" <support@jasspa.com>"
|
.CE
The following  example is \*(mE C-Mode  abbreviation  file for  constructing C
files.  Remember  \fB\\p\fR is where the cursor is  positioned  following  the
expansion.
.CS
#i "#include <\\p>\\r\\P"
#d "#define "
if "if(\\p)\\r{\\r\\r}\\r\\P"
ef "else if(\\p)\\r{\\r\\r}\\r\\P"
el "else\\r{\\r\\p\\r}\\r\\P"
wh "while(\\p)\\r{\\r\\r}\\r\\P"
sw "switch(\\p)\\r{\\rcase :\\rdefault:\\r}\\r\\P"
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
Abbreviation  files  are  given the  extension  \fB.eaf\fR  in the \*(mE  home
directory.
.PP
One of the easiest  ways to create more complex  abbreviations  is to record a
keyboard  macro,  name it and then  insert the  resultant  macro. See notes on
commands
.Ht start-kbd-macro 2 ,
.Ht name-kbd-macro 2 
and
.Ht insert-macro 2 .
.PP
Try to avoid using named key, such as "\fCup\fR"  and  "\fCreturn\fR",  as the
keyboard  macro  equivalent  is not readable and is likely to change in future
releases.
.SH FILES
.B c.eaf
\- C-Mode abbreviation file.
.B emf.eaf
\- Macro code abbreviation file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht execute-string 2 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ,
.Ht insert-macro 2 ,
.Ht iso-accents-mode 3 ,
.Ht name-kbd-macro 2 , 
.Ht start-kbd-macro 2 ,
.Ht eaf 8 .
.ad
.FH
