.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd140.2,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cv\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH view-file 2
.XI view-file - "\*(C0Load a file read only"
.SH NAME
view-file \- Load a file read only
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B view-file
"\fIfile-name\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B view-file
is like
.Ht find-file 2 ,
and  either  finds the file in a buffer, or creates a new buffer and reads the
file in. A new file is left in
.Ht view 2m
mode if the file was found (i.e. cannot be edited).
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR can be used to modify the default  behaviour of
the command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If the file does not exist and this bit is not set the  command  fails at this
point.  If the file  does not  exist  and this bit is set (or no  argument  is
specified  as the  default  argument  is \fC1\fR)  then a new empty  buffer is
created with the given file name, saving the buffer subsequently creates a new
file.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht binary 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBbinary\fR  mode for more  information on editing
binary data files.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht crypt 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBcrypt\fR  mode for more  information  on editing
encrypted files.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht rbin 2m
mode enabled. See help on \fBrbin\fR  mode for more  information  on efficient
editing of binary data files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht read-file 2 ,
.Ht view 2m ,
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht crypt 2m ,
.Ht rbin 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
