.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd158.2,v 2.4 2001-07-14 10:10:50 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH file-op 2
.XI file-op \- "File system operations command"
.SH NAME
file-op \- File system operations command
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B file-op
[ ( [ "\fIfrom-file\fR" "\fIto-file\fR" ] ) |
.br
.RS
( ["\fIdelete-file\fR"] ) | ( ["\fIdir-name\fR"] ) ]
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B file-op
can  be  used  to  perform   numerous  file  system   operations.   The  given
argument  \fIn\fR must be used to determine the required  operation, the value
is a bit based flag denoting the operation as follows:
.IP \fB0x010\fR
Log-off  and close down the current ftp connect  (not a file system  operation
but functionality was required and it had to go somewhere).
.IP \fB0x020\fR
When this bit is set the command  functionality is changed to delete-file, the
single argument  \fIdelete-file\fR  is deleted.
.IP \fB0x040\fR
When this bit is set the command  functionality  is changed to move-file,  the
specified   \fIfrom-file\fR   is  moved  to  \fIto-file\fR.
.IP \fB0x080\fR
When this bit is set the command  functionality  is changed to copy-file,  the
specified   \fIfrom-file\fR   is  copied  to  \fIto-file\fR.
.IP \fB0x100\fR
When this bit is set the  command  functionality  is  changed  to making a new
directory,  the specified  \fIdir-name\fR  is the name of the new directory. A
file or directory of the given name must not already exist.
.PP
Only one operation can be performed per  invocation. The following bits in the
given  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  effect  the  behaviour  of  these
operations:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables validity checks, these include a check that the proposed file does not
already exist, if so  confirmation of writing is requested from the user. Also
\*(mS checks all other current buffers for one with the proposed file name, if
found, again  confirmation  is  requested.  Without this flag the command will
always succeed wherever possible.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Creates a backup of any file about to be deleted or over-written. Set help on
.Ht $buffer-backup 5
for backup file-name generation.
.SH NOTES
\fBhttp\fR  files are not  supported  except as the source file when  copying.
\fBftp\fR files are fully supported with the restriction  that the from and to
files cannot both be url (http or ftp) files.
.PP
The command is used by
.Ht file-browser 3
and
.Ht ftp 3
which provides an easy to use interfaces for file manipulation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht file-browser 3 ,
.Ht ftp 3 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht $temp-name 5 .
.ad
.FH
