.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd103.2,v 2.8 2006-08-20 17:43:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|essential
.ds C0 "(\fB\*ez\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cX\*cc\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH quick-exit 2
.XI quick-exit - "\*(C0Exit the editor writing changes"
.XI save-buffers-exit-emacs - "\*(C0Exit the editor prompt user to write changes"
.SH NAME
.Me "|quick-exit"
quick-exit \- Exit the editor writing changes
.br
.Me "|save-buffers-exit-emacs"
save-buffers-exit-emacs \- Exit the editor prompt user to write changes
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBquick-exit\fR \*(C0
[\|\fIexitCode\fR\|]
.br
\fBsave-buffers-exit-emacs\fR \*(C1
[\|\fIexitCode\fR\|]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quick-exit
writes  out all  changed  buffers to the files they were read from,  saves all
changed dictionaries, killing any running commands and exits the editor.
.PP
The numeric argument is defined as follows:
.IP "\fC0\fR"
A zero numeric argument then the editor is closed down and any unsaved buffers
are lost. 
.IP "\fC1\fR"
Prompting the user before saving any files, writes out all changed  buffers to
the files they were read from. Saves all  changed  dictionaries,  killing  any
running   commands   and   exits  the   editor.   
.IP "\fC2\fR"
Discard  changed  buffers  (except the  history and  registry)  and delete any
backup  files   associated   with  the  edited   buffer(s).  Only  valid  with
\fBquick-exit\fR.
.PP
.B save-buffers-exit-emacs
prompts the user before saving any files, writes out all changed  buffers to
the files they were read from. Saves all  changed  dictionaries,  killing  any
running   commands   and   exits  the   editor. 
.SH "MACRO INTERACTION"
If the macro 
.Ht shut-down 3
is defined  then it is invoked by the editor when it is closed. A user defined
shutdown action may be associated with the close  operation. It is the callers
responsibility  that the macro terminates  correctly otherwise the editor will
hang.
.PP
For macros development then the
.Ht exit-emacs 2 
command provides better control of the exit process than 
.B quick-exit
and
.B save-buffers-exit-emacs
and should be used instead. 
.B save-buffers-exit-emacs
is actually implemented as 
.BR "3 exit-emacs" .
.\" .SH EXAMPLE
.\" The exit code (\fC22\fR in this example) may be usefully set as follows, which
.\" allows the exit code to be specified and any user prompts are maintained.
.\" .Me $emf-scheme
.\" .CS
.\" 7 save-buffers-exit-emacs "22" @mna
.\" .CE 1
.\" .Me $ehf-scheme
.\" The  behavior  of the exit  command  may be  changed,  the  following  example
.\" replaces the standard binding with a new exit command. The new command always
.\" prompts the user to confirm the exit. Note that 
.\" .B save-buffers-exit-emacs
.\" is invoked with argument 
.\" .Ht @mna 4
.\" which runs the command as if executed  from the command  line. This allows the
.\" command line interaction if any buffers are to be saved.
.\" .Me $emf-scheme
.\" .CS
.\" define-macro my-exit-emacs
.\"     !if &iseq @mc1 "Exit Emacs - Are you sure [y/n] ? " "yYnN" "y"
.\"         save-buffers-exit-emacs @mna
.\"     !endif
.\" !emacro
.\" global-bind-key my-exit-emacs "esc z"
.\" global-bind-key my-exit-emacs "C-x C-c"
.\" .CE
.\" .Me $ehf-scheme
.\" To discard unsaved buffers without prompting then the exit command key binding
.\" may be redefined:-
.\" .Me $emf-scheme
.\" .CS
.\" 8 global-bind-key quick-exit "esc z"
.\" .CE
.\" .Me $ehf-scheme
.\" If the unsaved buffers should be saved as a recovery  file(s) then the binding
.\" may be defined as:-
.\" .Me $emf-scheme
.\" .CS
.\" 16 global-bind-key quick-exit "esc z"
.\" .CE 0
.\" .Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
All buffers  with a name  starting  with a '\fB*\fR'  are assumed to be system
buffer (i.e. \fB*scratch*\fR) and are not saved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht exit-emacs 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht shut-down 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
