.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd098.2,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:31 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e@\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH pipe-shell-command 2
.XI pipe-shell-command - "\*(C0Execute a single operating system command" command|shell
.XI $ME_PIPE_STDERR 5 "Command line diversion to stderr symbol" variable|shell
.SH NAME
pipe-shell-command \- Execute a single operating system command
.br
$ME_PIPE_STDERR \- Command line diversion to stderr symbol
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|pipe-shell-command"
.I n
.B pipe-shell-command
"\fIcommand\fR"
["\fIbuffer-name\fR"] \*(C0
.sp 1
.Me "|$ME_PIPE_STDERR"
.I "[MS-DOS and Win32s Only]"
.br
.Me "|$ME_PIPE_STDERR"
.B $ME_PIPE_STDERR 
"\fIstring\fR"; Default is undefined.
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pipe-shell-command
executes one operating  system command  \fIcommand\fR  and pipes the resulting
output into a buffer with the name of \fB*command*\fR.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  change  the  default   behavior  of
pipe-shell-command described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables the use of the default buffer name \fB*command*\fR  (default). If this
bit is clear the user must supply a buffer name. This enables  another command
to be started without effecting any other command buffer.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Hides the output  buffer,  default  action pops up a window and  displays  the
output buffer in the new window.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Disable the use of the  command-line  processor  to launch the program  (win32
versions  only). By default the  "\fBcommand\fR"  is launched by executing the
command:
.CS
    %COMSPEC% /c command 
.CE 0
.IP
Where  \fC%COMSPEC%\fR  is  typically  command.com.  If this  bit is set,  the
"\fBcommand\fR" is launched directly.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
Detach the launched  process from \*(mS (win32  versions only). By default the
command is launched as a child  process of \*(mS with a new console. With this
bit set the process is completely detached from \*(mS instead.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
Disable  the  command  name  mangling  (win32  versions  only). By default any
\&'\fC/\fR' characters found in the command name (the first argument only) are
converted to '\fC\\\fR' characters to make it Windows compliant.
.SH NOTES
On \s-1MS-DOS\s0 and \fIWin32s\fR the standard shell
.Hr command.com 1
does not support the piping of \fIstderr\fR to a file. Other shells, such as
.Hr 4Dos.com 1 ,
do, using the command-line  argument  "\fC>&\fR". If the environment  variable
"\fCME_PIPE_STDERR\fR"  is defined (the value is not used) then \*(mS  assumes
that the current shell supports piping of stderr.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ,
.Ht shell-command 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
