.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd112.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:46 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|spell
.so me.tni
.TH save-dictionary 2
.XI save-dictionary - "Save changed spelling dictionaries"
.SH NAME
save-dictionary \- Save changed spelling dictionaries
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B save-dictionary
["\fIdictionary\fR"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B save-dictionary
may be used to save one, or all changed, dictionaries back to disk. By default
\fBsave-dictionary\fR prompts for a single dictionary, which is then saved. If
the  dictionary to be saved has been created  within the session  (rather than
read  from  disk)  the  user  is  always  prompted  to save  and  enter a full
dictionary  file name (pathname) to save to. If the dictionary was not created
then the user is only prompted to save if,
.BS
a non-zero argument is supplied
.BU
and the users history registry node  "\fI/history/spell/autosave\fR"  does not
exist or its value is zero.
.BE
Otherwise the dictionary is automatically saved.
.PP
The argument \fIn\fR may be used to control the effect of the command, \fIn\fR
is a bit based flag defined as follows:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  prompting  before saving, only used when saving all dictionaries.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Save all changed dictionaries.
.SH NOTES
This  command  is  called to save all  dictionary  changes  whenever  \*(mS is
exited.
.PP
The  dictionary  auto-save  registry  value can be changed via the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht delete-dictionary 2 ,
.Ht spell 2 .
.ad
.FH
