.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd086.2,v 2.6 2006-11-07 21:55:43 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|cursor
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cHv\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH list-variables 2
.XI list-variables \- "\*(C0List defined variables"
.SH NAME
list-variables \- List defined variables
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBlist-variables\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B list-variables
pops  up a  window  with a list  of all  register,  buffer,  user  and  global
variables with their current  setting. The variables are shown for the current
buffer from which the command was invoked
.PP
.B list-variables
provides a good alternative to
.Ht describe-variable 2
where the value of multiple variables is to be interrogated.
.PP
The output is displayed in four sections:-
.IP "\fBRegister variables\fR"
The current settings of the global register variables ('\fB#\fR' prefix).
.IP "\fBBuffer Variables\fR"
The current setting of the buffer variables ('\fB:\fR' prefix). This variables
relate to the current buffer from which the command was invoked.
.IP "\fBSystem Variables\fR"
The current settings of the system variables ('\fB$\fR' prefix).
.IP "\fBGlobal Variables\fR"
The current setting of the global variables ('\fB%\fR' prefix).
.SH EXAMPLE
An example output from
.B list-variables
is shown below:-
.CS
Register variables:

    #g0 ........................... "29"
    #g1 ........................... ""
    #g2 ........................... "ERROR"
    :
    :
    #g8 ........................... "ERROR"
    #g9 ........................... "ERROR"

Buffer [m2cmd086.2] variables:


System variables:

    $auto-time .................... "300"
    $buffer-bhook ................. "bhook-nroff"
    $buffer-bname ................. "m2cmd086.2"
    $buffer-ehook ................. "ehook-nroff"
    $buffer-fhook ................. "fhook-nroff"
    $buffer-fmod .................. "040"
    $buffer-fname ................. "d:/emacs/doc/m2cmd086.2"
    $buffer-hilight ............... "3"
    :
    :
    $window-width ................. "80"
    $window-x-scroll .............. "0"
    $window-xcl-scroll ............ "0"
    $window-y-scroll .............. "52"

Global variables:

    %company-name ................. "JASSPA"
    %compile-com .................. "build "
    %diff-com ..................... "diff -c -w"
    :
    :
    %tag-file ..................... "tags"
    %tag-option ................... "rcemsv"
    %xgrep-com .................... "grep -n "
.CE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht describe-variable 2 ,
.Ht list-commands 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
