.Id $Id: m2cmd052.2,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:09:39 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|paragraph
.ds C0 "(\fB\*eo\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH fill-paragraph 2
.XI fill-paragraph \- "\*(C0Format a paragraph"
.SH NAME
fill-paragraph \- Format a paragraph
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBfill-paragraph\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fill-paragraph
this takes all the text in the current  paragraph  (as defined by  surrounding
blank lines, or a leading indent) and attempts to fill it from the left margin
to the current fill column as defined by
.Ht $fill-col 5 .
When an argument \fIn\fR is supplied \fIn\fR paragraphs are filled. If \fIn\fR
is positive  then \*(mE  performs  indented  filling (i.e.  indentation  for a
bullet mark etc). If \fIn\fR is negative then indented filling is disabled. If
no  argument  \fIn\fR  is  supplied  then  the  paragraph  is  filled  and the
\fIpoint\fR and \fImark\fR  positions are retained. This allows  paragraphs to
be filled,  whilst in the middle of the  paragraph  and the word  position  is
maintained.
.PP
If \fBjustify mode\fR is enabled the variable
.Ht $fill-mode 5
determines  how  the  paragraph  is  filled  (i.e.  \fIleft\fR,   \fIright\fR,
\fIboth\fR or \fIcenter\fR). The variable
.Ht $fill-eos-len 5
determines  the  trailing  space  used  after  a  period  (\fC.\fR)  character
(the trailing characters are specified by 
.Ht $fill-eos 5 ),
typically defined as 2. 
.PP
A set of characters defined by
.Ht $fill-bullet 5
enable  bullet  markers  to be  placed  in the  text at the  beginning  of the
paragraph  causing the left margin to be moved to the right of the bullet. The
search depth for fill to locate a bullet character is defined by
.Ht $fill-bullet-len 5 .
When  the  paragraph  is  formatted  and  one  of the  bullet  characters  is
encountered  then the user is prompted as to whether the  paragraph  should be
indented following the marker or not. The point of indentation is shown with a
\fC<<<<\fR marker.
.PP
Filling is automatically disabled on paragraphs which start with characters in
the
.Ht $fill-ignore 5
set.
.PP
The simple text  formatting is generally used for mail messages,  \s-1ASCII\s0
text \s-1README\s0 files etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  examples show how the text is formatted  with indented  filling
enabled and both justification enabled:-
.CS
This  is  regular  text  that  is on the
margin

    This is a regular  paragraph that is
    offset  from  the  margin.  Note how
    \*(mE retains the indent.

    * With  the  introduction  of one of
      the  special  characters,  in this
      case a  bullet,  a  format  of the
      paragraph  offsets  the text  from
      the bullet.

    1) Numbered  lists   are  the  same.
       Note that the  paragraphs are all
       separated with a blank line.

    1. Numbered  lists  ending  with   a
       period.

    label - Or labeled lists, separated
            with a dash.

    >  '>' might be an ignore
    >  character so it skips the paragraph
    >
    >          it is up to the user to
    >   format these.
.CE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $fill-bullet 5 ,
.Ht $fill-bullet-len 5 ,
.Ht $fill-col 5 ,
.Ht $fill-eos 5 ,
.Ht $fill-eos-len 5 ,
.Ht $fill-ignore 5 ,
.Ht $fill-mode 5 ,
.Ht ifill-paragraph 3 ,
.Ht paragraph-to-line 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
