.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd080.2,v 2.6 2004-10-29 22:25:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|paragraph|delete
.so me.tni
.TH kill-paragraph 2
.XI kill-paragraph - "Delete a paragraph"
.SH NAME
kill-paragraph \- Delete a paragraph
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBkill-paragraph\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kill-paragraph
deletes the next \fIn\fR  paragraphs, if \fIn\fR is +ve then the paragraph the
cursor is currently in and the next \fIn\fR-1  paragraphs are killed and added
to the kill buffer. If \fIn\fR is \-ve then the  paragraphs  are not placed in
the kill buffer,  therefore the text is effectively lost (this does not affect
the
.Ht undo 2
operation).
.PP
If \fIn\fR is zero the command  simply  returns. The default value for \fIn\fR
is 1.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The  following  errors can be  generated,  in each case the command  returns a
FALSE status:
.IP "\fB[end of buffer]\fR"
The  given  argument   \fIn\fR  was  greater  that  the  number  of  remaining
paragraphs, all the remaining paragraphs are still removed.
.SH NOTES
A paragraph is terminated by a blank line. All text residing between two blank
lines is considered to be a paragraph - regardless of the text layout.
.PP
The  distinction  between  killed text and deleted  text is that text which is
killed is placed into the yank buffer so that it can be pasted into any buffer
using
.Ht yank 2 .
.SH EXAMPLE
The -ve/+ve  behavior  to kill the  previous/next  paragraphs  may be achieved
using the following macro wrap:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro my-kill-paragraph
  !if &les @# 0
    set-variable @# &abs @#
    forward-paragraph
    @# backward-paragraph
  !endif
  @# kill-paragraph
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht backward-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht forward-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 .
.ad
.FH
