.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd122.2,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cXv\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH set-variable 2
.XI set-variable - "\*(C0Assign a new value to a variable"
.XI unset-variable - "Delete a variable"
.SH NAME
.Me "|set-variable"
set-variable \- Assign a new value to a variable
.br
.Me "|unset-variable"
unset-variable \- Delete a variable
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.na
.B set-variable
"\fIvariable\fR"
"\fIvalue\fR" \*(C0
.br
.B unset-variable
"\fIvariable\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B set-variable
sets the given register (\fB#\fR name), system (\fB$\fR name), global (\fB%\fR
name), buffer  (\fB:\fR name) or command  (\fB.\fR name) variable to the given
value, erasing its current value. The returned value of an undefined  variable
is the string  "\fCERROR\fR",  this maybe used to determine whether a variable
has been set.
.PP
.B unset-variable
unsets the given  variable so that it no longer exists. The variable must be a
global  (\fB%\fR),  buffer  (\fB:\fR) or command  (\fB.\fR)  variable,  system
(\fB$\fR) variables cannot be unset.
.PP
The  \fIvalue\fR  may be  quoted  or  unquoted,  if there are any white  space
characters, or characters  open to other  interpretation  (e.g.  \fB@wc\fR) in
\fIvalue\fR then quotes should be used.
.PP
\fIvalue\fR may contain control characters which are delimited by a back slash
(\fB\\\fR) which include:-
.IP
.nf
\fC\\n\fR newline
\fC\\t\fR tab
\fC\\\\\fR backslash
.fi
.LP
Confusion  sometimes arises in macros with the back slash, as the back slashes
are dereferenced when set. Commands such as
.Ht replace-string 2
where the command  itself  utilizes  back  slashes. In this case the number of
back slashes should be doubled as the variable contents under go two stages of
dereferencing.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht describe-variable 2 ,
.Ht list-variables 2 ,
.Ht &set 4 .
.sp
.nf
.Hl "Variables" Variables 4
.Hl "Introduction to Variable Functions" Functions -
.Hl "Register Variables" RegisterVariables 4
.fi
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
