.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd081.2,v 2.5 2001-12-18 16:52:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|delete|region
.ds C0 "(\fB\*cw\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH kill-region 2
.XI kill-region - "\*(C0Delete all characters in the marked region"
.SH NAME
kill-region \- Delete all characters in the marked region
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBkill-region\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kill-region
deletes all characters from the cursor  to the mark set with the
.Ht  set-mark 2
command.  The  characters  removed  are copied into the kill buffer and may be
extracted using
.Ht yank 2 .
If a numeric argument of \fC0\fR is given the command has no effect. If a \-ve
argument is given the characters are not placed in the kill buffer,  therefore
the text is effectively lost (this does not effect the
.Ht undo 2
operation).
.PP
The mark position may be ahead or behind the current cursor position.
.SH USAGE
To move text from one place to another:
.BS
Move to the beginning of the text you want to move.
.BU
Set the mark there with the
.Hl set-mark set-mark 2
(\fB\*e\*(sP\fR) command.
.BU
Move the point (cursor) to the end of the text.
.BU
Use the  \fBkill-region\fR  command to delete the region you just defined. The
text will be saved in the kill buffer.
.BU
Move the point to the place you want the text to appear.
.BU
Use the
.Hl yank yank 2
(\fB\*cy\fR)  command  to copy the text  from the kill  buffer to the  current
point.
.BE
Repeat the last two steps to insert further copies of the same text.
.SH NOTES
If a region is accidentally removed then
.Hl yank yank 2
the text back immediately or use
.Ht undo 2 .
.PP
Windowing  systems such as X-Windows  and Microsoft  Windows  utilize a global
windowing kill buffer allowing data to be moved between windowing applications
(\fIcut   buffer\fR   and   \fIclipboard\fR,   respectively).   Within   these
environments  \*(mE  automatically  interacts with the windowing  systems kill
buffer, the last \*(mE \fBkill-region\fR  entry is immediately available for a
paste operation into another windowing application.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-region 2 ,
.Ht kill-rectangle 2 ,
.Ht reyank 2 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 ,
.Ht undo 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
