.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd011.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:24 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macro
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX(\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(cX)\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH start-kbd-macro 2
.XI start-kbd-macro - "\*(C0Start recording keyboard macro"
.XI end-kbd-macro - "\*(C1Stop recording keyboard macro"
.SH NAME
.Me "|start-kbd-macro"
start-kbd-macro \- Start/stop recording keyboard macro
.Me "|end-kbd-macro"
end-kbd-macro \- Stop recording keyboard macro
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBstart-kbd-macro\fR \*(C0
.br
\fBend-kbd-macro\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
A  keyboard  macro is a short  hand way to repeat a series of  characters.  In
effect, a  \fIrecording\fR  is made of the sequence of keys that you hit while
defining a keyboard macro. The recording is started with \fBstart-kbd-macro\fR
and ended with  \fBend-kbd-macro\fR.  The recording is then repeated  whenever
you execute the keyboard macro using
.Ht execute-kbd-macro 2 .
.PP
Since it is key-strokes that are being saved, you can freely intermix commands
and text to be inserted into the buffer.
.PP
You can save a keyboard macro for later using the
.Ht name-kbd-macro 2
command,  which saves the  keyboard  macro as a named macro.  Otherwise if you
start another keyboard macro recording  session, the previously  defined macro
is lost. So make sure that you are done with the current keyboard macro before
defining  another one. If you have a series of commands that you would like to
\fIrecord\fR for later use,
.Ht insert-macro 2
can be used to insert the macro into a text file and can be reloaded using the
.Ht execute-file 2
or
.Ht execute-buffer 2
commands.
.PP
Recording commences with  \fBstart-kbd-macro\fR  (\fC\*(cX(\fR) and terminates
when an \fBend-kbd-macro\fR (\fC\*(cX)\fR is encountered.
.SH "NOTES"
Once  \fBstart-kbd-macro\fR  has been  executed,  the mouse is disabled  until
\fBend-kbd-macro\fR  is executed.  This is because the mouse events  cannot be
successfully recorded in macros. The main menu can still be used, but only via
the  keyboard  bindings  and  hot-keys  (note that the  layout of the menu may
change).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht execute-kbd-macro 2 ,
.Ht insert-macro 2 ,
.Ht kbd-macro-query 2 ,
.Ht name-kbd-macro 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
