.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd018.2,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH change-screen-depth 2
.XI change-screen-depth - "Change the number of lines on the screen"
.XI change-screen-width - "Change the number of columns on the screen"
.SH NAME
.nf
.Me "|change-screen-depth"
change-screen-depth \- Change the number of lines of the screen
.Me "|change-screen-width"
change-screen-width \- Change the number of columns on the screen
.fi
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B change-screen-depth
.br
.I n
.B change-screen-width
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B change-screen-depth
changes the size of the screen to \fIn\fR  lines deep. It is assumed  that the
screen is \fIn\fR lines deep and \*(mE draws \fIn\fR lines at the users peril.
A change in depth causes all of the windows currently  displayed on the screen
to be re-sized, the vertical  position of the windows is modified to match the
new  screen  dimension,  the  horizontal   position  of  the  windows  remains
unaltered. If the window is down-sized and the currently displayed windows are
not able to fit into the new screen  space then all  windows are deleted  with
the exception of the current window.
.PP
.B change-screen-width
changes the size of the screen to \fIn\fR  characters wide. It is assumed that
the screen is \fIn\fR  columns  wide and \*(mE  draws  \fIn\fR  columns at the
users peril. The windows are reorganized as
.B change-screen-depth
working horizontally rather than vertically.
.SH NOTES
Within windowing environments such as
.B X-Windows
and
.B "Microsoft Windows"
these  commands  cause the canvas  window to be  re-sized to  accommodate  the
change in screen size.
.PP
In \s-1MS-DOS\s0 environments the physical size of the screen is determined by
the characteristics of the display adapter.
.B change-screen-depth
may be used to correct  anomalies  (usually on  portables) in the  displayable
screen area and the graphics  mode. e.g. the graphics  mode utilizes 50 lines,
and only 47 lines are viewable. In this case change the screen depth to 47 and
\*(mE will not utilize the remaining lines which are not viewable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $screen-depth 5 ,
.Ht $screen-width 5 .
.ad
.FH
