.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd001.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH add-color 2
.XI add-color - "Create a new color"
.XI add-color-scheme - "Create a new color scheme"
.SH NAME
.br
.Me "|add-color"
add-color \- Create a new color
.br
.Me "|add-color-scheme"
add-color-scheme \- Create a new color scheme
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B add-color 
"\fIcol-no\fR"
"\fIred\fR"
"\fIgreen\fR"
"\fIblue\fR"
.br
.I n
.B add-color-scheme
"\fIschemeNum\fR"
"\fIfore\fR"
"\fIback\fR"
"\fIcurrent-fore\fR"
"\fIcurrent-back\fR"
.br
.RS
.RS
"\fIselected-fore\fR"
"\fIselected-back\fR"
.br
"\fIcurrent-selected-fore\fR"
"\fIcurrent-selected-back\fR"
.br
[ "\fIfm-fore\fR"
"\fIfm-back\fR"
"\fIfm-cur-fore\fR"
"\fIfm-cur-back\fR"
.br
"\fIfm-sel-fore\fR"
"\fIfm-sel-back\fR"
.br
"\fIfm-cur-sel-fore\fR"
"\fIfm-cur-sel-back\fR" ]
.RE
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B add-color 
creates a new color and inserts it into \*(mE colors  table, where  \fIred\fR,
\fIgreen\fR  and \fIblue\fR are the color  components and  \fIcol-no\fR is the
\*(mE  color table  number. The color table  contains  256 entries  indexed by
\fIcol-no\fR in the range 0-255.
.PP
On some  platforms  (DOS and UNIX termcap) the number of colors is  physically
limited by the hardware to less than 256 (typically  16), in this case all 256
colors can be defined and for each created  color the closest  system color is
used.
.PP
By default, only color 0 (white) and 1 (black) are defined. Once created, the
colors may be used to create color schemes, this is the sole use of colors.
.PP
.B add-color
may be used to modify an existing  \fIcol-no\fR  index by  re-assignment,  the
existing color definition is over-written with the new color definition.
.B add-color-scheme
creates a color scheme entry used by
.Ht hilight 2 ,
.Ht screen-poke 2 ,
.Ht osd 2
and variables such as
.Ht $global-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $ml-scheme 5 .
.PP
The command  takes an index  number  "\fIschemeNum\fR"  and eight color values
(defined by \fBadd-color\fR)
alternating  between  foreground and background colors. The 8 colors represent
the 4 color paired states of foreground  and  background  that may appear in a
text buffer. The paired  states  correspond to current and selected  lines (or
permutations  thereof).  If an argument  \fIn\fR is given to the command  then
\fIschemeNum\fR  is set to a  duplicate  of the  \fIn\fRth  scheme,  no  other
arguments are required.
.PP
\fIschemeNum\fR is the identifying index that is used to recognize the scheme.
By default only two color  schemes are defined at  initialization,  they are a
monochrome  scheme and  inverse  scheme  with  indices 0 and 1 using  white as
foreground and black as background, selected text is inverted. When defining a
color scheme, if an existing \fIschemeNum\fR index is used then that scheme is
modified.
.PP
The next eight arguments must be given, they specify foreground and background
color pairs for the four different situations, as follows:-
.IP Default
Color combination used when none of the following three are applicable.
.IP Current
Color  combination used when the text is on the same line as the cursor. It is
also used by the
.Ht $mode-line-scheme 5
for the current window's mode line and for the current selection on an
.Ht osd 2
dialog.
.IP Selected
Color  combination  used when the text is in the current  selected region, but
is not on the current  line. Also used by \fBosd\fR for  non-current  item Hot
keys.
.IP "Current-selected"
Color combination used when the text is on the current line and in the current
selected region. Also used by \fBosd\fR for the current item's Hot key.
.PP
The following 8 arguments set up fonts and are optional, any missing arguments
are defaulted to 0. Each argument is a bitmask indicating which font should be
enabled, where each bit is as follows:
.sp
.RS
\fC0x01\fR Enable bold font.
.br
\fC0x02\fR Enable italic font.
.br
\fC0x04\fR Enable light font.
.br
\fC0x08\fR Enable reverse font.
.br
\fC0x10\fR Enable underlining.
.RE
.PP
Normally only the  foreground  value is used, i.e. the first, third, fifth and
seventh values. But
.Ht screen-poke 2
can be used to draw reversed color scheme in which case the background  values
are used.
.SH EXAMPLE
The color palette is typically created at start-up via the configuration  file
\fBscheme\fR\|\fIX\fR\|\fB.emf\fR. These files are not easily read as they are
automatically generated via the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
dialog. A more readable form of "\fCschemed.emf\fR" would be as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; Standard colors
add-color &set .white     0 200 200 200
add-color &set .black     1 0   0   0
add-color &set .red       2 200 0   0
add-color &set .green     3 0   200 0
add-color &set .yellow    4 200 200 0
add-color &set .blue      5 0   0   200
add-color &set .magenta   6 200 0   200
add-color &set .cyan      7 0   200 200
; Light colors
add-color &set .lwhite    8 255 255 255
add-color &set .lblack    9 75  75  75
add-color &set .lred     10 255 0   0
add-color &set .lgreen   11 0   255 0
add-color &set .lyellow  12 255 255 0
add-color &set .lblue    13 0   0   255
add-color &set .lmagenta 14 255 0   255
add-color &set .lcyan    15 0   255 255
; Selection color
add-color &set .sel-col  16 91  78  131
; Set the required cursor-color
set-variable $cursor-color .col12
; Set up the standard schemes for the text, mode line message line, scroll bar and osd.
add-color-scheme $global-scheme  .white .black .lwhite .black ...
    ... .white .sel-col .lwhite .sel-col 0 8 1 9 8 0 9 1
add-color-scheme $ml-scheme  .white .black .lwhite .black ...
    ... .white .sel-col .lwhite .sel-col 0 8 1 9 8 0 9 1
add-color-scheme $mode-line-scheme  .white .red .lwhite .lred ...
    ... .white .red .lwhite .red 8 0 9 1 0 8 1 9
add-color-scheme $scroll-bar-scheme .white .lblack .lwhite .lblack ...
    ...  .lblack .white .lblack .lwhite 8 0 9 1 0 8 1 9
    .
    .
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
Color  schemes  can be created and altered using the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
dialog, the created color scheme can then the used from start-up by using the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog. Therefore direct use of these commands is largely redundant.
.PP
The  existence  of a color  or  scheme  index  is  checked  as each  entry  is
submitted,  therefore any color or scheme used must have been  previously been
created, otherwise a default value is substituted.
.PP 
Changing any existing  color  definitions  causes all  references to the color
from a scheme to adopt the new color.
.PP
Changing any existing  color-scheme  definitions changes the rendered color of
any
.Ht hilight 2
etc., that was using that color-scheme.
.PP
A \-ve color scheme value (i.e. \fI\-n\fR) uses the previous '\fIn\fR'th entry
that is defined in the color block. i.e. if  \fIcurrent-fore\fR  was specified
as -2 then it would inherit the \fIfore\fR field color.
.PP
Not all UNIX terminals support all the above fonts.
.PP
On some  telnet  packages  color  is not  directly  supported  and some of the
termcap display  attributes such as bold and italic are represented by a color
(e.g. italic text is shown in green). Using this translation it is possible to
achieve  reasonable color support on a VT100 terminal - it is a little awkward
but is worth while if you have to use this type of connection frequently.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht change-font 2 ,
.Ht hilight 2 ,
.Ht screen-poke 2 ,
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5 ,
.Ht $cursor-color 5 ,
.Ht $global-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $trunc-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $ml-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $osd-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $mode-line-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $scroll-bar-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $system 5 .
.ad
.FH
