.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd056.2,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:03:55 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cf\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH find-file 2
.XI find-file \- "\*(C0Load a file"
.SH NAME
find-file \- Load a file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B find-file
"\fIfile-name\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B find-file
finds the named file  \fIfile-name\fR. If it is already in a buffer, make that
buffer active in the current window, otherwise  attempt to create a new buffer
and read the file into it.
.PP
If the file does not exist and the variable
.Ht $rcs-file 5
is set then the  existence of the  \s-1RCS\s0  file is tested. If the rcs file
exists  then it will be  checked  out using a  command-line  created  from the
variable
.Ht $rcs-co-com 5 .
If the check-out is successful then this file is loaded.
.PP
If the file does not exist and an argument  \fIn\fR of 0 is  specified  the
command  fails at this point. If the file does not exist and a non-zero  or no
argument is  specified  then a new empty buffer is created with the given file
name, saving the buffer subsequently creates a new file.
.PP
Text files are  usually thought  of as named  collections of  text residing on
disk (or some other storage medium).  In \*(mE the disk based versions of
files come into play only  when reading into or  writing out buffers. The link
between the physical file and the buffer is through the associated file name.
.PP
\*(mE permits full file names, i.e. you can specify:
.CS
disk:\\directories\\filename.extension
.CE
or (\s-1UNIX\s0)
.CS
/directories/filename.extension
.CE
If the disk and  directories  are not  specified,  the current  buffers  disk/
directory is used.  Several  points  should be noted in respect to the methods
that \*(mS utilizes in the handling of files:-
.BS 1 1
Without  explicitly saving the buffer(s) to file, all edits would be lost upon
leaving  \*(mS \- you are  asked to  confirm  whenever  you are  about to lose
edits.
.BU
\*(mS  has a mechanism  for  "protecting"  your  disk-based  files from
overwriting  when it saves files. When  instructed to save a file, it proceeds
to dump  the file to disk,  making a backup  of the  existing  file  when
.Ht backup 2m
mode is enabled.
.BU
Auto-saving files  can  be  performed  on edited  buffers  by  setting the
.Ht $auto-time 5
variable. The file is saved in the same place with a '\fC#\fR' appended to the
file name. This can be used  directly by the user or in the unlikely  event of
\*(mS crashing (or system crash), the files are  automatically  recovered next
time it is edited.
.BE
If you do not wish to perform any edits but merely browse the file(s), add the
.Ht view 2m
mode to the buffer or ask for the file to be read in for
.Hl viewing view-file 2
only.
.SS "HTTP Support"
\*(mS  supports http file loading, this is available by default on \s-1UNIX\s0
systems  but must be  compiled in on win32  platforms  (socket  libraries  not
available  on all win95  machines so cannot be compiled in by  default).  When
available a http file can be loaded by simply  executing  \fBfind-file\fR  and
giving the http file name, i.e.
.\"
"\fChttp://user:password@address:port/file\fR".    Only   the   \fChttp://\fR,
\fCaddress\fR  and \fC/file\fR  components are mandatory, the rest can usually
be omitted. e.g.:
.CS
find-file "http://members.xoom.com/jasspa/index.html"
.CE
See help page on
.Ht %http-proxy-addr 5
for information on HTTP proxy server support.
.SS "FTP support"
\*(mS  supports ftp file  loading, this is identical to http except the prefix
\fCftp://\fR is used as opposed to  \fChttp://\fR.  The user name and password
defaults to  \fIguest\fR  in the absence of these  fields.  Connection  is by
default on port 21.
.CS
find-file "ftp://<me>:<password>@members.xoom.com/jasspa/index.html"
.CE
See also 
.Ht ftp 3 .
.PP
The progress of the FTP transer, and the FTP commands issued, may be viewed in
the \fC*ftp-console*\fR  buffer. This is popped up depending on the setting of
the
.Ht %ftp-flags 5 
variable.
.SH NOTES
The  base  name  part  (i.e.  not the  path) of  \fCfile-name\fR  can  contain
wild-card characters compatible with most file systems, namely:-
.IP \fB?\fR
Match any character.
.IP \fB[abc]\fR
Match character only if it is \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR or \fIc\fR.
.IP \fB[a-d]\fR
Match character only if it is \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR, \fIc\fR or \fId\fR.
.IP \fB[^abc]\fR
Match character only if it is not \fIa\fR, \fIb\fR or \fIc\fR.
.IP \fB*\fR
Match any number of characters.
.PP
If the name  matches  more than one file, a buffer  will be  created  for each
matching file. Note that these are not the same wild-card characters used by
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2 .
.PP
For \fIftp\fR and  \fIhttp\fR  then a ftp console  window is opened up to show
the progress of the transfer (when configured), this is described in 
.Ht ftp 3 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $rcs-file 5 ,
.Ht %ftp-flags 5 ,
.Ht %http-flags 5 ,
.Ht %http-proxy-addr 5 ,
.Ht auto 2m ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht find-bfile 2 ,
.Ht ftp 3 ,
.Ht next-window-find-file 2 ,
.Ht read-file 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht time 2m ,
.Ht view 2m ,
.Ht view-file 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht file-attrib 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
