.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m2cmd008.2
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd008.2,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:31 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|registry
.so me.tni
.TH save-registry 2
.XI save-registry - "Write a registry definition file"
.SH NAME
save-registry \- Write a registry definition file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B save-registry
["\|\fIroot\fR\|" "\|\fIfile\fR\|"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B save-registry
saves a registry tree, defined by \fIroot\fR, to a registry file \fIfile\fR in
the
.Ht erf 8
format. By default the user is prompted for the registry  \fIroot\fR  to save,
which  must  already  exist.  If the  \fIfile\fR  given  is the  empty  string
\fC""\fR, the registry node  \fIroot\fR must be a root node with an associated
file name stored, this file name is used.
.PP
The argument \fIn\fR may be used to control the effect of the command, \fIn\fR
is a bit based flag defined as follows:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  prompting  before saving, only used when saving all registries.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Save all  changed  registries  except the history  node which  should be saved
using the command
.Ht save-history 2 .
.SH NOTES
This command is called to save all registry changes whenever \*(mS is exited.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht read-registry 2 ,
.Ht save-history 2 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
