.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd076.2,v 2.6 2006-03-09 20:53:50 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH insert-string 2
.XI insert-string \- "Insert character string into current buffer"
.SH NAME
insert-string \- Insert character string into current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B insert-string
"\fIstring\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B insert-string
inserts a string  \fIn\fR  times into the  current  buffer,  moving the cursor
position.
.PP
.B insert-string
allows  text to be  built in a buffer  without  reading  it from a file.  Some
special escape characters are interpreted in the \fIstring\fR, as follows:
.IP
.nf
.na
\fC\\n\fR \- Enters a new line
\fC\\t\fR \- A tab character
\fC\\b\fR \- Backspace
\fC\\f\fR \- Form-feed
\fC\\\\\fR \- Literal backslash character '\fC\\\fR'
\fC\\xXX\fR \- Hexadecimal value of character \s-1ASCII\s0 value
.ad
.fi
.SH "NOTES"
If a -ve argument \fIn\fR is given to \fBinsert-string\fR  the given string
is inserted 0-\fIn\fR times into the buffer. The behavior is the same as if a
+ve argument is given except that if the string contains a new-line  character
(ascii char 0x0a), rather than  splitting  the string over multiple  lines the
character is inserted into a single line of the buffer.
.PP
This is highly  irregular  and can break \*(mS (for example
.Ht undo 2
will fail and could lead to a crash);  the  feature  has been added to support
bit \fC0x100\fR of the
.Ht shell-command 2
process  spawning group of commands. It's use outside of this context is to be
avoided. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht insert-file 2 ,
.Ht insert-newline 2 ,
.Ht insert-space 2 ,
.Ht insert-tab 2 ,
.Ht newline 2 .
.ad
.FH
