.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd132.2,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:52 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH show-region 2
.XI show-region - "Show the current copy region"
.SH NAME
show-region \- Show the current copy region
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B show-region
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B show-region
manipulates  the  currently  defined  region,  it can be used to  inquire  the
state  of the  current  region,  if any. It can  also  be  used  to  define  a
region, enable and disable the region  hilighting, as well as move the
cursor to the start or end of the region.
.PP
Region hilighting occurs between the \fImark\fR (see
.Ht set-mark 2 )
and  \fIpoint\fR  (current  cursor)  positions  within the  current  buffer. A
region is defined  when  text is copied to the kill  buffer, by using any of
the kill commands such as
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
or
.Ht copy-region 2 .
However, the kill region is only visible after a
.Ht copy-region 2 
or a
.Ht yank 2
operation.  A hilight  region is also  created on a  successful  search using
commands like
.Ht search-forward 2 ,
the  region encloses the search matching string.
.Ht Spell 2
also creates a hilight region around the current spell word. The user can also
define their own region using the numeric argument to \fBshow-region\fR.
.PP
The  argument   \fIn\fR   supplied  to  the  command   indicates   the  require
functionality and can take the following values:-
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fC-3\fR \- Set the start position of the region.
\fC-2\fR \- Move the cursor the  Mark position.
\fC-1\fR \- Disable the hilighting of the current region.
\fC 0\fR \- Return the current status of the region in
.Ht $result 5 .
\fC 1\fR \- Enable the hilighting of the current region.
\fC 2\fR \- Move the cursor the  Dot position.
\fC 3\fR \- Set the end position of the region.
\fC 4\fR \- Reactivate the current region.
.fi
.RE
.PP
Where an  argument  of 0 is used to  return  the  current  state  the value of
$result is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Indicates a region is currently active (visible).
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Indicates a region has been fixed (may not visible).
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Indicates the region is in the current buffer.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
Indicates the cursor is in the current region.
.PP
The color of the selection hilight is defined by
.Ht add-color-scheme 2
and is determined by
.Ht $buffer-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $global-scheme 5
or
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5 .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The  following  errors can be  generated,  in each case the command  returns a
FALSE status:
.IP "\fB[No current region]\fR"
There is no current defined region on which to operate.
.IP "\fB[Current region not in this buffer]\fR"
An  argument of 2 or -2 was used and the defined  region  isn't in the current
window so the cursor can not be moved to it.
.SH NOTES
.PP
If no argument is given to the command it hilights the current region, similar
to an argument of 1. But the  properties  of the  hilight,  namely how long it
will be hilighted for, are inherited from the setting of
.Ht $show-region 5 ,
whereas if an argument of 1 is passed in then the hilighting is set to be kept
until the region becomes invalid (i.e. as if
.Ht $show-region 5
is set to 3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $show-region 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-hilight 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $global-scheme 5 ,
.Ht add-color-scheme 2 ,
.Ht copy-region 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 ,
.Ht spell 2 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 .
.ad
.FH
