.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd034.2,v 2.7 2006-07-28 16:35:04 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|delete|essential
.ds C0 "(\fB\*cd\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*(bS\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH forward-delete-char 2
.XI forward-delete-char - "\*(C0Delete the next character at the cursor position"
.XI backward-delete-char - "\*(C1Delete the previous character at the cursor position"
.SH NAME
.nf
.Me "|forward-delete-char"
forward-delete-char \- Delete next character at the cursor position
.Me "|backward-delete-char"
backward-delete-char \- Delete previous character at the cursor position
.fi
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBforward-delete-char\fR \*(C0
.br
.I n
\fBbackward-delete-char\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B forward-delete-char
deletes the next \fIn\fR  characters from the current cursor  position. If the
cursor  is at the end of a line, the next  line is joined  onto the end of the
current line. If a numeric argument is given the character(s) are added to the
kill buffer, otherwise the kill buffer remains unaltered.
.PP
.B backward-delete-char
deletes  the next  \fIn\fR  characters  immediately  to the left of the cursor
(e.g. more  conventionally  backspace). If the cursor is at the beginning of a
line,  this  joins the  current  line to the end of the  previous  line. If an
argument is given then the  character  is added to the kill buffer,  otherwise
the kill buffer remains unaltered.
.PP
Where the  numeric  argument  is \fC0\fR the command has no effect. A negative
argument changes the direction.
.SH NOTES
.B forward-delete-char
is also bound to  \fB\*(dE\fR and  \fB\*s\*(dE\fR.
.PP
.B backward-delete-char
is also bound to \fB\*s\*(bS\fR.
.SH HISTORY
As of December 2004 the mode
.Hr letter 2m 
which controlled whether the deleted character is added to the kill buffer was
removed.  Letter mode used to be disabled by default, the  behavior of the old
letter mode, when enabled, may be achieved through the key bindings:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
1 global-bind-key backward-delete-char "backspace"
1 global-bind-key forward-delete-char "delete"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The use of the  numeric  argument  of 1 in the global  binding has the has the
same effect as the existing
.Hr letter 2m 
mode (when enabled).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht backward-char 2 ,
.Ht backward-kill-word 2 ,
.Ht forward-char 2 ,
.Ht forward-kill-word 2 ,
.Ht kill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
