.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd121.2,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:10:39 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|region
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*(sP\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH set-mark 2
.XI set-mark - "\*(C0Set starting point of region"
.SH NAME
set-mark \- Set starting point of region
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBset-mark\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B set-mark
is used to  delimit  the  beginning  of a marked  region.  Many  commands  are
effective  for a region of text. A region is defined as the text  between  the
mark and the  current  cursor  position.  To  delete a  section  of text,  for
example,  one moves the  cursor to the  beginning  of the text to be  deleted,
issues the \fBset-mark\fR  command by typing  \fB\*e\*(sP\fR, moves the cursor
to the end of the text to be deleted, and then deletes it by using the
.Ht kill-region 2
(\fB\*cw\fR)  command. Only one mark can be set in one window or one buffer at
a time, and \*(mE will try to remember a mark set in an off screen buffer when
it is called back on screen.
.PP
A region is a block of text to be acted upon by some  \*(mE  commands. It
is demarcated by the  \fBPOINT\fR  on one end and the \fBMARK\fR at the other.
The point is the primary  location  identifier  where most of the action takes
place and is always  between two  characters.  The point is  indicated  by the
cursor  position  in that it is just  behind  the  cursor.  The  point is also
significant  in that it defines  one end of the region. The mark, on the other
hand, is invisible,  and is used to demarcate  the other end of the region and
is set through \fBset-mark\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht copy-region 2 ,
.Ht exchange-point-and-mark 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 .
.Ht reyank 2 ,
.Ht yank 2 ,
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
