.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m2cmd157.2
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jul 16 23:13:14 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd157.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:56 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|registry
.so me.tni
.TH read-registry 2
.XI read-registry - "Read in a registry definition file"
.SH NAME
read-registry \- Read in a registry definition file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B read-registry
"\|\fIroot\fR\|"
"\|\fIfile\fR\|"
"\|\fImode\fR\|"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B read-registry
loads a registry file
.Ht erf 8
into the internal  registry  memory, where the information may be queried via
the registry macro commands. The arguments are defined as follows:-
.IP \fIroot\fR
The  root  node in the  registry  to into  which  the  registry  contents  are
attached. The root name is limited to 32 characters in length and is specified
without a leading  forward slash '\fC/\fR'. The node \fIroot\fR is created at the root of
the registry.
.IP \fIfile\fR
The name of the registry file
.Ht erf 8
to load. This may be an absolute,  relative or \fC$MEPATH\fR  specified  file;
typically it is located on \fC$MEPATH\fR.
.IP \fImode\fR
The  \fImode\fR  is string  specifying  the  registry  node loading and saving
modes, each mode is  represented by a character.  Lower case  characters add a
mode, upper case characters delete a mode. The modes are defined as follows:-
.RS
.IP "\fBa\fR \- Autosave"
Automatically  saves the  registry  when it is  deleted or  unloaded  from the
registry. The user is not prompted for a save.
.IP "\fBb\fR \- Backup"
Automatically performs a backup of the registry file whenever a save operation
is performed.
.IP "\fBc\fR \- Create"
If the registry file cannot be loaded then the \fIroot\fR  node is created and
the  invocation  succeeds.  If this mode is omitted  then the call fails if the
\fIfile\fR cannot be found.
.IP "\fBd\fR \- Discard"
Marks the registry as discardable.  This is typically used for registries that
are not saved.
.IP "\fBr\fR \- Reload"
If the registry node already  exists then it is deleted and reloaded, see also
the merge flag  (\fBm\fR). By default, when both the \fBr\fR and \fBm\fR flags
are omitted and the  registry  node already  exists the read  operation is not
performed and the existing node is used.
.IP "\fBm\fR \- Merge"
The registry file is merged with the contents of any existing  registry  node.
(i.e. the existing registry tree nodes are not deleted if they already exist).
See also the reload flag (\fBr\fR).
.IP "\fBh\fR \- Hidden"
The registry  node is created in the  \fIHidden\fR  state. (i.e. children will
not be shown in
.Ht list-registry 2
output).
.IP "\fBu\fR \- Updated"
Marks the registry as modified.  The modified bit is removed when the registry
file is saved. If the  modified  bit is  applied  to a registry  node the user
will be  prompted  to save  the  registry  when it is  deleted  (or it will be
automatically saved when the \fIAutosave\fR mode is used).
.RE
.IP
Multiple modes may be applied.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example is a typical  call made from a macro  using a registry
file where the user may edit the registry  file. In this case this a reload of
the  registry  is  forced  to ensure  that the most  up-to-date  contents  are
retrieved.  Note that the name of the registry file is actually  retrieved from
the \fIhistory\fR registry.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable #l1 &reg "/history" "address" $MENAME
!if &seq &set #l0 &find #l1 ".ab" "ERROR"
    set-variable #l0 &reg "/" "history" ""
    set-variable #l0 &spr "%s%s.ab" &lef #l0 &rsin "/" #l0 #l1
!endif
read-registry "AddressBook" #l0 "rc"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH BUGS
At exit only registry nodes attached to the root are saved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht save-registry 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2 ,
.Ht mark-registry 2 ,
.Ht erf 8 .
.ad
.FH
