.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd143.2,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:31 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cw\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH write-buffer 2
.XI write-buffer - "\*(C0Write contents of buffer to named (new) file"
.SH NAME
write-buffer \- Write contents of buffer to named (new) file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B write-buffer
"\fIfile-name\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B write-buffer
is used to write the contents of the buffer to a \s-1NEW\s0 file, use
.Ht save-buffer 2
if the buffer is to be written to the existing  file already  associated  with
the buffer.
.PP
.B write-buffer
writes the contents of the current  buffer to the named file  \fIfile-name\fR.
The action of the write also changes the file name associated with the current
buffer to the new file name.
.PP
Unlike
.Ht append-buffer 2 ,
.B write-buffer
always  replaces an existing  file and the new file  inherits the buffers file
characteristics instead of the old file's.
.PP
On writing the file, if
.Ht time 2m
mode is enabled then the
.Hl "time stamp string" $timestamp 5
is  searched  for  in the  file  and  modified  if  located,  to  reflect  the
modification date and time.
.PP
If the buffer contains a
.Ht narrow 2m
it will automatically  be removed  before  saving so that the whole  buffer is
saved and restored when saving is complete
.PP
If
.Ht backup 2m
mode is enabled and the buffer is associated  with a different  file (compared
with \fIfile-name\fR) then any
.Hl "automatic save" $auto-time 5
copies of the file associated with the \fIbuffer\fR are deleted.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  can  be  used  to  change  the  default  behavior  of
write-buffer described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  validity  checks  (default).  These include a check that the proposed
file does not already exist, if so  confirmation  of writing is requested from
the user.  Also  \*(mE  checks  all  other  current  buffers  for one with the
proposed file name, if found, again  confirmation  is requested.  Without this
flag the command will always succeed wherever possible.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Disables the expansion of any narrows (see
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 )
before saving the buffer.
.SH NOTES
.Ht undo 2
information is discarded when the file is written.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $auto-time 5 ,
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht time 2m ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht file-attrib 3 ,
.Ht change-file-name 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht append-buffer 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
