.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd020.2,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:13:08 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window|comparison
.so me.tni
.TH compare-windows 2
.XI compare-windows - "Compare buffer windows, ignore whitespace"
.XI compare-windows-exact 3 "Compare buffer windows, with whitespace" 
.SH NAME
.Me "|compare-windows"
compare-windows \- Compare buffer windows, ignore whitespace.
.br
.Me "|compare-windows-exact"
compare-windows-exact \- Compare buffer windows, with whitespace.
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B compare-windows
.br
.B compare-windows-exact
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B compare-windows
compares the textural  content of  \s-1ALL\s0  the current  windows from their
current cursor  position. These commands are generally used to locate the next
difference in the windows  displayed. Returns \fCTRUE\fR if the buffers of the
windows  do not  differ  from  the  current  position  to the end of the  file
(inclusive), else returns \fCFALSE\fR setting the cursor of each buffer to the
first point of difference.
.PP
The default mode of operation ignores  white-space, a numeric argument \fIn\fR
of zero (0) then an exact white-space match is performed.
.PP
.B compare-windows-exact
is a macro  short  cut for  \fI0  compare-windows\fR,  forcing  a white  space
comparison.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht diff 3 ,
.Ht diff-changes 3 ,
.Ht gdiff 3 .
.ad
.FH
