.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd032.2,v 2.2 2001-04-30 07:42:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop|file
.so me.tni
.TH directory-tree 2
.XI directory-tree - "Draw the file directory tree"
.SH NAME
directory-tree \- Draw the file directory tree
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B directory-tree
["\fIdirectory\fR"]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdirectory-tree\fR  creates  or  manipulates  a  view  of the  file  systems
directory  structure.  The  command  is quite  complex to use  directly  so is
largely used but macros such as
.Ht file-browser 3 .
.PP
The argument \fIn\fR is a bit based flag which is used to control the command,
where the bits have the following meaning:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If  set,  the  focal   directory   of  the   command   is  set  by  the  given
"\fIdirectory\fR"  argument.  Otherwise  the  argument is not required and the
command must be executed  within the  "\fI*directory*\fR"  buffer; the current
line sets the focal directory.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Specifies that the current line in resultant "\fI*directory*\fR" window should
be set to the focal  directory.  If this bit is not set then the current  line
will be the last selected  directory, or if none have been selected, the first
line in the buffer.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Specifies that any evaluations  required during the commands  operation should
be performed. Without this flag an open operation on a directory which has not
previously  been  evaluated  will not be perform an evaluation and the results
will likely be incomplete.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
Specifies that the current focal  directory  should be opened. This means that
sub-directories  within the current focal  directory will also be drawn in the
directory tree.
.IP \fB0x10\fR
Specifies that the current focal  directory  should be closed. This means that
sub-directories  within the current focal  directory  will not be drawn in the
directory tree.
.IP \fB0x20\fR
Specifies  that the current  focal  directory's  open state should be toggled.
This means that if the  sub-directories  are currently hidden they will now be
drawn and vice-versa.
.IP \fB0x40\fR
When  specified  any  directory  opened  will be  re-evaluated,  ensuring  the
accuracy of the information.
.IP \fB0x80\fR
Enables a recursive  behavior,  for example if this flag was specified  with
the open then not only will the focal  directory  be  opened,  but all of it's
children,  and their  children  etc. Note that if the  Evaluation  flag is not
specified then only the already evaluated directories can be opened.
.PP
directory-tree  creates a new buffer  "\fI*directory*\fR"  and draws the known
directory  tree. Every drawn  directory is preceded by a character flag giving
the user an indication of the directory state, where:
.IP \fB?\fR
Directory has not been evaluated.
.IP \fB-\fR
Directory has been evaluated and is visible.
.IP \fB+\fR
Directory has been evaluated but is currently hidden.
.PP
Directories  which have been  evaluated  and found to have no children 
use the '-'
.Ht $box-chars 5
instead of a '-' character.
.PP
On UNIX platforms, if a directory is a symbolic link to another directory, the
link name is given after the directory name.
.SH EXAMPLE
The best example of the use of directory-tree is
.Ht file-browser 3
which can be found in hkdirlst.emf.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht file-browser 3 ,
.Ht $box-chars 5 .
.ad
.FH
