.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd094.2,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:13:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|cursor|paragraph
.ds C0 "(\fB\*en\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*ep\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH forward-paragraph 2
.XI forward-paragraph - "\*(C0Move the cursor to the next paragraph"
.XI backward-paragraph - "\*(C1Move the cursor to the previous paragraph"
.SH NAME
.Me |forward-paragraph
forward-paragraph \- Move the cursor to the next paragraph
.br
.Me |backward-paragraph
backward-paragraph \- Move the cursor to the previous paragraph
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBforward-paragraph\fR \*(C0
.br
\fIn\fR \fBbackward-paragraph\fR \*(C1
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B forward-paragraph
moves  forwards  \fIn\fR  paragraphs.  The  cursor is placed at the end of the
\fIn\fRth  paragraph at the start of the blank paragraph  separation line. The
default  value of \fIn\fR is 1, if \fIn\fR is negative  then the  direction is
backwards.
.PP
.B backward-paragraph
similarly  moves  backwards  \fIn\fR  paragraphs.  The cursor is placed at the
start of the blank paragraph  separation line. The default value of \fIn\fR is
1, if \fIn\fR is negative then the direction is forwards.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
The  following  errors can be  generated,  in each case the command  returns a
FALSE status:
.IP "\fB[end of buffer]\fR"
When moving  forwards, the given argument  \fIn\fR was greater that the number
of remaining paragraphs, the cursor is left at the end of the buffer.
.IP "\fB[top of buffer]\fR"
When moving  backwards, the given argument \fIn\fR was greater than the number
of  paragraphs  before the cursor, the cursor is left at the  beginning of the
buffer.
.SH NOTES
.BS
For both  invocations  a negative  value  reverses  the sense of  movement  as
expected.
.BU
A paragraph break is defined as a blank line.
.BE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht backward-line 2 ,
.Ht forward-line 2 ,
.Ht kill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht scroll-down 2 ,
.Ht scroll-up 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.FH
