.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd057.2,v 1.4 2000-11-18 01:47:10 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|scuts
.ds C0 "(\fB\*et\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH find-tag 2
.XI find-tag \- "\*(C0Find tag, auto-load file and move to tag position"
.SH NAME
find-tag \- Find tag, auto-load file and move to tag position
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B find-tag
"\fIstring\fR" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B find-tag
finds the current or given tag (\fIstring\fR) in a \fBtags\fR file and goes to
the  given  point,  loading  the  file if  necessary.  The tag is  either  the
current word under  the  cursor or a user supplied  word if the  cursor is not
in a word. The buffer  containing  the tag is popped up in another  window and
the cursor moved to the tag in the new window.
.PP
A \fBtags\fR file is usually created by an external program (e.g.
.Hr ctags 1 )
which stores word references (or tags) and the name of the file containing the
tag, with a search  string to go to its local. It is an indexing  system which
is often used in programming.
.PP
The argument \fIn\fR  can be used to change the default  behavior of find-tag
described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Use  popup-window to display the tag in a different window (default) when this
flag is not given the current window is used to display the tag.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Disable the use of the current  cursor  position to determine the tag. Instead
the tag must always be supplied through "\fIstring\fR".
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Find the next  definition of the last tag (multiple tag support). This feature
can only be used if  multiple  tag support is enabled  (see flag  '\fBm\fR' of
variable
.Ht %tag-option 5 )
and  \fBfind-tag\fR has already been successfully  executed. In this situation
the last  invocation of find-tag  defines the current tag and executing  again
with an argument of \fC4\fR  will jump to the next  definition  of the current
tag or return the message "\fC[No more "<current>" tags]\fR". 
.IP
The next tag is typically bound to \fCM-C-t\fR.
.PP
The  \fBtags\fR  file  is, by  default,  assumed  to  reside  in  the  current
directory of the currently viewed file. The user variable 
.Ht %tag-option 5 
may  be  specified  with  a  value  of  '\fCr\fR'  (recursive)  and  '\fCc\fR'
(continue) flags, which ascends the directory tree from the current  directory
and  attempts to locate a  \fIrecursively\fR  generated  tags file at a higher
directory  level.  Recursive tag files are generally  easier to maintain where
project source files are located in a number of project  sub-directories,  and
enable the whole of the project tree to be taggable.
.PP
Two user  variables  must be defined  before  \fBfind-tag\fR  will execute, if
either
.Ht %tag-file 5
or
.Ht %tag-template 5
are not defined the error message "\fB[tags not setup]\fR" is signaled.
.SH NOTES
A \fBtags\fR  file may be generated by
\*(mE from the menu (\fITools->XX Tools->Create Tags File\fR). Alternatively a
\fBtags\fR file may be generated by the 
.Hr ctags 1 
utility.  This is typically  standard on  \s-1UNIX\s0  platforms.  For Windows
and \s-1DOS\s0  platforms then the \fBExuberant  Ctags\fR is recommended, this
is available from:-
.IP
.C "http://darren.hiebert.com"
.LP
A \*(mE compatible tags file may be generated using the command line
.\"
"\fCctags -N --format=1 ."\fR  cataloging the current  directory. To generate  \fBtags\fR
for a directory tree then use
.\"
"\fCctags -NR -format=1 .\fR". Refer to the \fBExuberant  Ctags\fR  documentation  for a
more detailed description of the utility.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht %tag-file 5 ,
.Ht %tag-option 5 ,
.Ht %tag-template 5 ,
.Hr ctags 1 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
