.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd110.2,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:10:36 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|cursor|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH set-position 2
.XI set-position - "Store the current position"
.XI goto-position - "Restore a stored position"
.XI set-window - "Save the current window for restore (historic)"
.XI goto-window - "Restore a saved window to the current window (historic)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|set-position"
set-position \- Store the current position
.br
.Me "|goto-position"
goto-position \- Restore a stored position
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B set-position
"\fIlabel\fR"
.br
.I n
.B goto-position
"\fIlabel\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBset-position\fR   stores  current   window,  buffer  and  cursor   position
information   against  the  given   '\fClabel\fR'   (a  single   alpha-numeric
character).   \fBgoto-position\fR  takes  the  positional  information  stored
against the given  '\fClabel\fR'  and  restores the window,  buffer and cursor
positions from those previously \fBset\fR.
.PP
A call to  \fBset-position\fR  with the same label  over-writes  the  previous
stored  information,  a  call  to  \fBgoto-position\fR   does  not  alter  the
information and may be restored multiple times.
.PP
The numerical argument to \fBset-position\fR is used to define the information
that is stored in the position item. The argument is intrepreted as a bitmask,
flagging what information is to be stored. The bit mask is defined as follows:
.IP \fC0x01\fR
Store the current window.
.IP \fC0x02\fR
Store the current window's horizonal scroll (value of
.Ht $window-x-scroll 5 ).
.IP \fC0x04\fR
Store the current window's current line horizonal scroll (value of
.Ht $window-xcl-scroll 5 ).
.IP \fC0x08\fR
Store the current window's vertical scroll (value of
.Ht $window-y-scroll 5 ).
.IP \fC0x10\fR
Store the current buffer.
.IP \fC0x20\fR
Store the current window's current line using an 
.Hl "alpha mark" set-alpha-mark 2 .
.IP \fC0x40\fR
Store the current window's current line number (value of
.Ht $window-line 5 ).
.IP \fC0x80\fR
Store the current window's current column offset (value of
.Ht $window-col 5 ).
.PP
When \fIn\fR is not  specified, the default value is  \fC0x0bf\fR,  i.e. store
all information required to return to the window, buffer and cursor position.
.PP
The  argument  supplied  to  \fBgoto-position\fR  similarly  interpreted  as a
bitmask,  restoring the positional  information.  When the numerical  argument
\fIn\fR  is  omitted  the same  default is used when  omitted on the store. On
restoring a position, information stored during the call to \fBset-position\fR
which is not  requested  in  corresponding  \fBgoto\fR  is ignored,  similarly
information requested in a \fBgoto\fR which was not stored in the \fBset\fR is
also ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example shows the typical use of these commands:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-position "a"
    .
    .
goto-position "a"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The  following  example  stores the  current  position at the start of a macro
sequence, if \fCmy-command\fR is not successful  (\fB$status\fR  equals 0) the
original position is restored:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-position "\\x80"
!force my-command
!if &equ $status 0
    ; command failed, return to the original position
    goto-position "\\x80"
!endif
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Note '\fC\\x80\fR' is interpreted as the character with the \s-1ASCII\s0 value
of 0x80 which is a non-alphanumeric  character, this is permitted in macros to
avoid using alphanumerics.
.PP
The  following  example shows how the current  position can be restored  after
re-reading a file:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
0xce set-position
read-file $buffer-fname @mna
; a numeric argument of 0xce is not
; required as this is the default
goto-position
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The  position  item may store and  restore the current  line by using an alpha
mark  or the  line  number.  The  restrore  strategy  will  determine  what is
required, as follows:-
.PP
The main  benefit from using an alpha mark is that the position is  maintained
even when the buffer is edited, for example if the  position is stored at line
10 and a line is  subsequently  inserted at the top of the buffer, if the line
number  was used then it would  return  back to the 10th line which is the old
9th line whereas if an alpha mark were used it would  correctly  return to the
11th line, as expected.
.PP
The disadvantage  of using an alpha mark is that it is only associated
with that buffer. In some cases a position  may need to be restored in another
buffer  (e.g. when  re-reading  a buffer  the  original  buffer may be deleted
first), in this situation the buffer line number must be used. 
.PP
Commands  \fBset-window\fR  and  \fBgoto-window\fR,  which  simple  stored and
returned  to  the  current   window,  were  replaced  by   set-position   and
goto-position in August 2000. The following macro  implementations  can be used
as a replacement:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro set-window
    1 set-position "\\x80"
!emacro

define-macro goto-window
    goto-position "\\x80"
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht set-alpha-mark 2 ,
.Ht find-buffer 2 ,
.Ht $window-x-scroll 5 ,
.Ht $window-xcl-scroll 5 ,
.Ht $window-y-scroll 5 ,
.Ht $window-line 5 ,
.Ht $window-col 5 .
.ad
.FH
