.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd139.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(rD\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH screen-update 2
.XI screen-update - "\*(C0Force screen update"
.SH NAME
screen-update \- Force screen update
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBscreen-update\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B screen-update
updates the current  screen,  usually used in macros. The argument  \fIn\fR
can be used to change the behaviour of this command as follows:
.IP \fC-ve\fR
Disables the next  -\fIn\fR  screen  updates, i.e. if \fIn\fR is \fC-1\fR then
the next time the screen needs to be redrawn nothing will happen.
.IP \fC0\fR
Resets the screen  update  disable  count to zero, useful to remember when the
the disable feature has been used incorrectly.
.IP \fC1\fR
Full screen update (default), the screen is completely cleared and redrawn (as
if garbled).
.IP \fC2\fR
Partial  screen  update, only the parts of the screen which  require  updating
are redrawn.
.IP \fC3\fR
No screen redraw, only window variables are up-dated. This feature is provided
for macros which  manipulate the screen view and need to know where the cursor
is in the  window  without  redrawing  the  screen  (which may cause  unwanted
flickering). Note that as the screen is not redrawn not all variables may have
the correct value, for example the frame store variable
.Ht @fs 4
could be out of date.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following macro  demonstrates the problems  encountered when trying to use
screen  variables in macros after the current  position has changed. The first
value  printed is the starting  cursor Y position and the next value should be
one less than the first value due to the call to
.Ht backward-line 2 .
But it is the same as the first  because the screen (and its  variables)  have
not been updated. The subsequent call to screen-update  ensures that the third
value is the correct one  although by giving it an argument of 3 the screen is
not visibly updated thus avoiding any annoying screen flicker:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro test-screen-update
    set-variable #l0 $cursor-y
    backward-line
    set-variable #l1 $cursor-y
    3 screen-update
    set-variable #l2 $cursor-y
    forward-line
    ml-write &spr "%d %d %d" #l0 #l1 #l2
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
Every time the screen requires  updating, \*(mS executes the \fIredraw\fR key,
it is similar in  mechanism  to the user  pressing  \fIC-l\fR  to refresh  the
screen. The user can therefore re-bind the \fIredraw\fR key to another command
or macro, thereby allowing the user complete control of what is displayed. For
example if \fIredraw\fR was bound to
.Ht void 2
the screen would not be up-dated  (\fBNote\fR: this is difficult to get out of
and may require \*(mS to be killed).
.PP
This feature is often  exploited by macros which take control of the input and
output, such macros include 
.Ht gdiff 3 ,
.Ht Metris 3 ,
and
.Ht Mahjongg 3 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht recenter 2 ,
.Ht screen-poke 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
