.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd099.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH screen-poke 2
.XI screen-poke - "Immediate write string to the screen"
.SH NAME
screen-poke \- Immediate write string to the screen
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B screen-poke
\fIrow\fR
\fIcolumn\fR
\fIcolorScheme\fR
"\fIstring\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B screen-poke
writes a  \fIstring\fR  to the screen at  position  (\fIrow\fR,  \fIcolumn\fR)
using the given color scheme. The screen  coordinates  are defined with (0,0)
at the top left of the screen.
.PP
.B screen-poke
by-passes  the  conventional  buffer update and writes  directly to the screen
buffer. The command has no effect on buffers already showing on the screen and
is erased on the next screen update. The \fIstring\fR is clipped to the screen
area  hence the caller  need not  continually  check on the size of the client
area.
.PP
The numeric argument \fIn\fR is a bitwise flag which has the following meaning
.nf
.na
\fC0x01\fR Don't mark the poke area for update.
\fC0x02\fR Don't flush poke to screen.
\fC0x04\fR colorScheme is an array of values, one for each letter.
\fC0xf0\fR colorScheme pair offset to use.
.fi
.ad
.LP
If the \fB0x01\fR  flag is absent then the parts of the screen over written by
\fBscreen-poke\fR  are marked and  refreshed  on the next  \fBscreen-update\fR
operation,  thereby erasing the poked  information. If the flag is present the
poked  information  remains on the screen until a forced  refresh is performed
(i.e. \fB1\ screen-update\fR) or the window information under the poked screen
data is modified.
.PP
In macros using many consecutive screen-pokes (e.g. 
.Ht Patience 3
to  display a pack of cards)  most  pokes use the 'No flush'  flag to  improve
performance and look on some platforms.
.PP
The use of \fBscreen-poke\fR has largely been reduced to games such as
.Ht Metris 3
since the introduction of
.Ht osd 2
to create dialogs.
.SH NOTES
Some platforms  do not  allow all  character values  to be  poked, illegal
characters are replaced with a '\fC.\fR'.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht osd 2 ,
.Ht screen-update 2 ,
.Ht Mahjongg 3 ,
.Ht Metris 3 .
.ad
.FH
