.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1988-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd024.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:41 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH create-callback 2
.XI create-callback - "Create a timer callback"
.SH NAME
create-callback \- Create a timer callback
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B create-callback
"\fIcommand\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B create-callback
creates a timer based callback  command. The given  \fIcommand\fR  is called
back in  \fIn\fR  milliseconds  time. This can be used by the user to  monitor
system  events (such as incoming  mail). The command is called only once, but
if the command creates a callback of itself a loop is created.
.PP
If a -ve argument \fIn\fR is given any pending  callback for  \fIcommand\fR is
cancelled.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example creates a callback that is invoked every 10 minutes.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro Example-callback
    ml-write "It was 10 minutes since you last saw me!"
    600000 create-callback Example-callback
!emacro
Example-callback
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
A call-back  cannot  interrupt while \*(mS is active, instead the call-back is
delayed until \*(mS becomes  inactive. \*(mS is considered to be inactive when
it is waiting  for user input, this could be during the  execution  of another
macro. If a command or macro  requires no user input then once  execution  has
started, it cannot be interrupted by a call-back macro.
.PP
The resolution of the clock is platform  dependent,  some platforms  limit the
minimum timer period to 10 milliseconds.
.PP
\*(mS  does  not  guarantee  to  service  the  callbacks  within  any set time
constraints, the resultant  callback  intervals may be of a slightly different
duration than requested.
.PP
When a callback macro is executed, the key given by
.Ht @cck 4
is "\fCcallback\fR. If the current buffer has a
.Ht $buffer-input 5
command set, this command will be called instead of the callback  command with
\fB@cc\fR and \fB@cck\fR set  appropriately. It is the  responsibility  of the
input macro to deal with the callback.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $auto-time 5 ,
.Ht define-macro 2 .
.ad
.FH
