.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd119.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:48 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH set-cursor-to-mouse 2
.XI set-cursor-to-mouse - "Move the cursor to the current mouse position"
.SH NAME
set-cursor-to-mouse \- Move the cursor to the current mouse position
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B set-cursor-to-mouse
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B set-cursor-to-mouse
sets the current  window and cursor  position to the  location of the mouse on
it's last event (button press or release). This command may change the current
window. If the line on which the mouse was  located was the message  line then
the no action is taken, if the line was a window  mode line the that window is
made the current window but the cursor  location within the window remains the
same.  This  is  usually  used  in  user  defined   macros  that  control  the
functionality of the mouse.
.PP
An argument \fIn\fR  determines if the command is permitted to change windows,
when omitted a window change is permitted on  \fBset-cursor-to-mouse\fR.  When
specified,  the mouse is not permitted to change  windows and returns an error
condition in 
.Ht $mouse-pos 5 
indicating that the mouse is not within the current window.
.PP
Invocation of this command sets the variable
.Ht $mouse-pos 5
which  determines  where the mouse is within the window.  Interrogation of the
variable  following  the  command  may be used to  determine  if the  mouse is
located on one of the more specialized window or screen regions.
.PP
When writing  macros to cut and paste using the mouse, care should be taken to
ensure  that the  window at the  button  release  is the same is at the button
press. If this is not undertaken, undesired effects could result. The use of
.Ht set-position 2
and
.Ht goto-position 2
are most usefully used with this command to restore existing window context.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $mouse-pos 5 ,
.Ht $mouse-x 5 ,
.Ht $mouse-y 5 ,
.Ht $window-mode-line 5 ,
.Ht $window-scroll-bar 5 ,
.Ht set-scroll-with-mouse 2 ,
.Ht set-position 2 ,
.Ht goto-position 2 .
.ad
.FH
