.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd093.2,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:10:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelopment
.so me.tni
.TH define-help 2
.XI define-help - "Define help information"
.SH NAME
define-help \- Define help information
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B define-help
"\fIstring\fR"
["\fIsection\fR"]
.IP
.I "Free form text"
.LP
.B "!ehelp"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B define-help
provides a mechanism  to define help  information  for commands and  variables
within macro files. The command  allows user defined  macros to be  documented
with help  information that is accessible from the command line via the normal
help commands such as
.Ht help-item 2 .
.PP
The help  information  is typically  embedded in the macro file with the macro
command  that it is  documenting.  When the macro file is loaded then the help
information is loaded and integrated into the existing help database.
.PP
\fIstring\fR  is the  name of the item  that is being  defined,  \fIsection\fR
defines  what  section the item  belongs to.  Following is a table of standard
\*(mE sections:
.RS
.PP 
\fC1 \fR \*(mS command line arguments. 
.br
\fC2 \fR Built-in commands. 
.br
\fC2m\fR \*(mS buffer modes. 
.br
\fC3 \fR Macro commands. 
.br
\fC4 \fR Macro language commands. 
.br
\fC5 \fR \*(mS variables.
.br
\fC8 \fR \*(mS file formats.
.PP
.RE
When  \fIsection\fR  is omitted is  defaults to the general  section  which is
usually used for the higher level help pages.
.PP
Text following the \fBdefine-help\fR  line contains the help information, this
is a free  form  text area that is  reproduced  when the help  information  is
requested. The end of the text area is delimited by a \fB!ehelp\fR  construct.
The help text is usually displayed using a special
.Hl "hilighting scheme" hilight 2
to control  the colors and  hyper-text  links to other help pages. As a result
the text may contain escape ('\fC^[\fR') key sequences, see
.Ht ehf 8
for more information on the format.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example is a define-help representation for the
.Ht paragraph-to-line 3
macro.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-help "paragraph-to-line" "3"

^[cENAME^[cA

     paragraph-to-line - Convert a paragraph to a single line
$a


^[cESYNOPSIS^[cA

     n paragraph-to-line


^[cEDESCRIPTION^[cA

     paragraph-to-line  reduces  each of the  next n  paragraphs  of text to a
     single  line.  This  is  used to  prepare  a  document  to go into a word
     processor environment where end of line marks represent paragraph marks.


^[cENOTES^[cA

     This command is a macro defined in format.emf.


^[cESEE ALSO^[cA

     ^[ls^[lm^[cGfill-paragraph(2)^[cA^[le.

!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht ehf 8 ,
.Ht help-item 2 ,
.Ht define-macro 2 ,
.Ht help-command 2 ,
.Ht help-variable 2 .
.ad
.FH
