.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd201.2,v 2.8 2005-01-15 16:58:54 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs bindings
.so me.tni
.TH Compatibility 2
.XI Compatibility - "Compatibility with the original MicroEmacs"
.SH "COMPATIBILITY"
JASSPA \*(mS is based on the original version of \fBMicroEMACS\fR  produced by
Danial   Lawrence  at  revision  3.8,  the  source  files  were   obtained  in
approximately  1990. The exact  origin of the files is unknown. In that period
of time the  source  files  have  undergone  an awful lot of  change,  without
reference to the  subsequent  releases  made of MicroEMACS by Danial  Lawrence
(due to no network access). As a result the JASSPA version of \fBMicroEmacs\fR
does not include any  modifications or features that may have been implemented
since.  This  version  of  \fBMicroEmacs\fR  has been  tailored  to suite  the
requirements  of a small  group of  individuals  who have used the editor on a
daily  basis  across a  limited  number of  platforms,  for a variety  of very
different tasks and operating requirements.
.PP
This   version   of  \*(mS  is  biased   towards   \s-1UNIX\s0   environments,
\s-1MS-DOS\s0 and Microsoft Windows ports have been performed however they are
heavily  influenced by  \s-1UNIX\s0  and inherit  \s-1UNIX\s0  characteristics
wherever  possible.  The  intention is that  programmers,  and alike, may move
across platforms using a common editor environment without being frustrated by
the idiosyncrasies of different platforms. The most noticeable platform is the
Microsoft  Windows platform which mimics the X-Windows cut and paste mechanism
within the \*(mS environment. If you want a Windows style environment then use
.Hr Notepad 1
or
.Hr Wordpad 1 ,
this editor is not for you !!
.PP
The gross changes to \fB\*(mE\fR are summarized as follows:-
.BS 1 1
Macro language  interpreter  re-written  allowing an unlimited number of named
macros to be  supported.  The macro  implementation  allows new commands to be
created  by the user, as  opposed  to  continually  extending  the  underlying
command set. The named macros are  transparent to the user, appearing as built
in commands on the command line. Macro  command set  significantly  increased.
Support for global, buffer and register variables within the macro language.
.BU
Display  drivers  re-written   providing  color  hilighting  support  on  most
platforms. A macro interface allows  information to be written directly to the
display canvas  allowing the screen to be annotated with additional  transient
information.
.BU
Support for  X-Window  screen type in UNIX  environments.  Microsoft  Window's
environments (3.x, '95, NT) treated in the same was as X-Windows - this may be
unorthodox  for  existing  Window's  users,  UNIX  users  will  find  it  more
comfortable.
.BU
Introduction of integrated  spell checker.  Support  includes  correction word
guessing, word  auto-correction and double word detection. Ignore and personal
dictionaries supported.
.BU
Horizontal window splitting.
.BU
Introduction  of scroll bars on all platforms that support a mouse. The scroll
bar implementation is platform independent.
.BU
Command and file completion  available on all platforms. Most commands support
a command history allowing previous command invocations to be recalled.
.BU
Session   history  file  kept,  allowing  the  previous  edit  session  to  be
reinstated.
.BU
Undo capability, allows previous edits to be undone when mistakes are made.
.BU
Backup  capability,  Includes a periodic timed backup while an editing session
is in  progress.  The  timed  backup is  automatically  recovered  by the next
session in situations where the system (or editor) crashes.
.BU
A regular  expression  incremental  search  becomes the default search forward
mechanism.
.BU
Support for  abbreviation  files  allowing  frequently  used  constructs to be
automatically expanded.
.BU
Automatic time stamping of files,  allowing the edit time to be  automatically
maintained in the source file(s).
.BU
Introduction of an electric 'C' mode. Editor intelligently  handles the layout
of 'C' files (under user control).
.BU
Improved   documentation  text  mode  providing   left/right/center  and  both
justification   methods   with   inclusion   for  bullet   points.   Automatic
justification  may be  continually  performed  as  text  is  entered,  thereby
maintaining the paragraph in the correct format.
.BU
Integrated  on-line help facilities. All commands are documented  on-line. New
macros may be  documented  within the macro  files and become part of the help
system.
.BU
File type determination system, based on either the file name or embedded file
text  allows  file  type  specific  macros  (hooks)  to  be  applied,  thereby
configuring the editor into the correct mode for the file type.
.BU
Introduction  of  special  \*(mS  search  path  allowing  all of the  standard
configuration files to be utilized from a shared directory.
.BE
.\".BS "\&"
.\"The  macro  lanugage  includes  a number of new
.\".Hl "command  functions" ,
.\".Hl "register variables"
The name space of JASSPA \*(mS  differs from the original  MicroEMACS  and has
become  more  compliant  with the GNU  implementation  of Emacs. A list of the
original  MicroEMACS verses the new command name set is as follows,  executing
the compatibility macro file  \fCmeme3_8.emf\fR  will create macro versions of
these commands:
.RS
.PP
.B add-global-mode
=>
.Hl global-mode global-mode 2
.br
.B add-mode
=>
.Hl buffer-mode buffer-mode 2
.br
.B apropos
=>
.Hl command-apropos command-apropos 2
.br
.B backward-character
=>
.Hl backward-char backward-char 2
.br
.B begin-macro
=>
.Hl start-kbd-macro start-kbd-macro 2
.br
.B beginning-of-file
=>
.Hl beginning-of-buffer beginning-of-buffer 2
.br
.B bind-to-key
=>
.Hl global-bind-key global-bind-key 2
.br
.B buffer-position
=>
.Hl buffer-info buffer-info 2
.br
.B case-region-lower
=>
.Hl lower-case-region lower-case-region 2
.br
.B case-region-upper
=>
.Hl upper-case-region upper-case-region 2
.br
.B case-word-capitalize
=>
.Hl capitalize-word capitalize-word 2
.br
.B case-word-lower
=>
.Hl lower-case-word lower-case-word 2
.br
.B case-word-upper
=>
.Hl upper-case-word upper-case-word 2
.br
.B change-screen-depth
=>
.Hl change-frame-depth change-frame-depth 2
.br
.B change-screen-width
=>
.Hl change-frame-width change-frame-width 2
.br
.B clear-message-line
=>
.Hl "0 ml-write" ml-write 2
.br
.B ctlx-prefix
=>
.Hl "prefix 2" prefix 2
.br
.B delete-global-mode
=>
.Hl global-mode global-mode 2
.br
.B delete-mode
=>
.Hl buffer-mode buffer-mode 2
.br
.B delete-next-character
=>
.Hl forward-delete-char forward-delete-char 2
.br
.B delete-next-word
=>
.Hl forward-kill-word forward-kill-word 2
.br
.B delete-previous-character
=>
.Hl backward-delete-char backward-delete-char 2
.br
.B delete-previous-word
=>
.Hl backward-kill-word backward-kill-word 2
.br
.B end-macro
=>
.Hl end-kbd-macro end-kbd-macro 2
.br
.B end-of-file
=>
.Hl end-of-buffer end-of-buffer 2
.br
.B execute-command-line
=>
.Hl execute-line execute-line 2
.br
.B execute-macro
=>
.Hl execute-kbd-macro execute-kbd-macro 2
.br
.B execute-macro-#
=>
.I "Deleted"
.br
.B file-name-insert
=>
.Hl insert-file-name insert-file-name 2
.br
.B forward-character
=>
.Hl forward-char forward-char 2
.br
.B grow-window
=>
.Hl grow-window-horizontally grow-window-horizontally 2
.br
.B handle-tab
=>
.Hl tab tab 2
.br
.B i-shell
=>
.Hl shell shell 2
.br
.B incremental-search
=>
.Hl isearch-forward isearch-forward 2
.br
.B kill-to-end-of-line
=>
.Hl kill-line kill-line 2
.br
.B meta-prefix
=>
.Hl "prefix 1" prefix 2
.br
.B move-window-down
=>
.Hl scroll-down scroll-down 2
.br
.B move-window-up
=>
.Hl scroll-up scroll-up 2
.br
.B name-buffer
=>
.Hl change-buffer-name change-buffer-name 2
.br
.B next-line
=>
.Hl forward-line forward-line 2
.br
.B next-page
=>
.Hl scroll-down scroll-down 2
.br
.B next-paragraph
=>
.Hl forward-paragraph forward-paragraph 2
.br
.B next-word
=>
.Hl forward-word forward-word 2
.br
.B open-line
=>
.Hl insert-newline insert-newline 2
.br
.B pipe-command
=>
.Hl pipe-shell-command pipe-shell-command 2
.br
.B previous-line
=>
.Hl backward-line backward-line 2
.br
.B previous-page
=>
.Hl scroll-up scroll-up 2
.br
.B previous-paragraph
=>
.Hl backward-paragraph backward-paragraph 2
.br
.B previous-word
=>
.Hl backward-word backward-word 2
.br
.B quote-character
=>
.Hl quote-char quote-char 2
.br
.B redraw-display
=>
.Hl recenter recenter 2
.br
.B restore-window
=>
.Hl goto-position goto-position 2
.br
.B reverse-incremental-search
=>
.Hl isearch-backward isearch-backward 2
.br
.B save-file
=>
.Hl save-buffer save-buffer 2
.br
.B save-window
=>
.Hl set-position set-position 2
.br
.B scroll-next-down
=>
.Hl scroll-next-window-down scroll-next-window-down 2
.br
.B scroll-next-up
=>
.Hl scroll-next-window-up scroll-next-window-up 2
.br
.B search-reverse
=>
.Hl search-backward search-backward 2
.br
.B select-buffer
=>
.Hl find-buffer find-buffer 2
.br
.B set
=>
.Hl set-variable set-variable 2
.br
.B shrink-window
=>
.Hl shrink-window-vertically shrink-window-vertically 2
.br
.B split-current-window
=>
.Hl split-window-vertically split-window-vertically 2
.br
.B top-bottom-switch
=>
.I "Deleted"
.br
.B transpose-characters
=>
.Hl transpose-chars transpose-chars 2
.br
.B unbind-key
=>
.Hl global-unbind-key global-unbind-key 2
.br
.B update-screen
=>
.Hl screen-update screen-update 2
.br
.B write-message
=>
.Hl ml-write ml-write 2
.RE
.sp
.FH
