.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd152.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|window
.so me.tni
.TH grow-window-horizontally 2
.XI grow-window-horizontally \- "Enlarge current window horizontally (relative)"
.XI shrink-window-horizontally \- "Shrink current window horizontally (relative)"
.XI resize-window-horizontally \- "Resize current window horizontally (absolute)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|grow-window-horizontally"
grow-window-horizontally \- Enlarge current window horizontally (relative)
.br
.Me "|shrink-window-horizontally"
shrink-window-horizontally \- Shrink current window horizontally (relative)
.br
.Me "|resize-window-horizontally"
resize-window-horizontally \- Resize current window horizontally (absolute)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B grow-window-horizontally
.br
.I n
.B shrink-window-horizontally
.br
.I n
.B resize-window-horizontally
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grow-window-horizontally
enlarges  the current  window by \fIn\fR  number of columns (1 by default). If
\fIn\fR is negative then the window is shrunk.
.PP
.B shrink-window-horizontally
shrinks the current  window by \fIn\fR  number of columns (1 by  default).  If
\fIn\fR is negative then the window is enlarged.
.PP
.B resize-window-horizontally
change the size of the current  window to \fIn\fR  columns, if possible.  i.e.
resize window is not a relative displacement.
.PP
Growth is performed by consuming space from the next horizontal  window to the
right of the current window, except when the window is on the right-hand  edge
of the screen when space is consumed from the left.
.SH EXAMPLE
Refer to  \fCmouse.ehf\fR  for an example of window  growth using the mouse to
manipulate the size of the windows.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $mouse-pos 5 ,
.Ht $scroll-bar 5 ,
.Ht $window-chars 5 ,
.Ht grow-window-vertically 2 ,
.Ht resize-all-windows 2 ,
.Ht split-window-horizontally 2 .
.ad
.FH
