.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2cmd106.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.ds C0 "(\fB\*(cX\*cr\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH read-file 2
.XI read-file - "\*(C0Find and load file replacing current buffer"
.SH NAME
read-file \- Find and load file replacing current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B read-file
"\fI\&file-name\fR\&" \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B read-file
operates like
.Ht find-file 2 ,
this  command  either  finds the file in a buffer, or creates a new buffer and
reads the file in. The  command  destroys the current  buffer  before the new
buffer is created  making  this  command  ideal to use when the wrong file was
entered on a
.Ht find-file 2 .
This  command  is also useful for re-loading files that have changed on disk.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fIn\fR can be used to modify the default  behaviour of
the command, where the bits are defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
If the file does not exist and this bit is not set the  command  fails at this
point.  If the file  does not  exist  and this bit is set (or no  argument  is
specified  as the  default  argument  is \fC1\fR)  then a new empty  buffer is
created with the given file name, saving the buffer subsequently creates a new
file.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht binary 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBbinary\fR  mode for more  information on editing
binary data files.
.IP \fB0x04\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht crypt 2m
mode enabled. See help on  \fBcrypt\fR  mode for more  information  on editing
encrypted files.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
If this bit is set the file will be loaded with
.Ht rbin 2m
mode enabled. See help on \fBrbin\fR  mode for more  information  on efficient
editing of binary data files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht reread-file 3 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht view-file 2 ,
.Ht binary 2m ,
.Ht crypt 2m ,
.Ht rbin 2m .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
