.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2cmd021.2,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:53:26 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH set-scroll-with-mouse 2
.XI set-scroll-with-mouse - "Scroll the window with the mouse"
.SH NAME
set-scroll-with-mouse \- Scroll the window with the mouse
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B set-scroll-with-mouse
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B set-scroll-with-mouse
command  controls the  scrolling of a window by the mouse. This is a two stage
process,  the first  stage  locks the  cursor to the mouse, the  second  stage
scrolls the screen.
.PP
The first  stage  (locking)  is  performed  when the mouse is  located  on the
scroll-box    (typically    when   the   left   button   is   depressed   i.e.
\fBpick-mouse-1\fR).  \fBset-scroll-with-mouse\fR  is invoked with an argument
\fIn\fR,  this  causes the mouse  position to be recorded  ready for a scroll.
Depending  on the scroll  method,  the blank  lines  present at the end of the
buffer are scrolled off the screen.
.PP
Subsequent calls to the \fBset-scroll-with-mouse\fR are made with no argument,
the window is  scrolled by the  relative  displacement  of the mouse from it's
locked  position,  motion  is  limited  at the  end of the  scrolling  region.
Scrolling is proportional to the buffer length. The command is typically bound
to  \fBmove-mouse-1\fR  which results in an update whenever the mouse is moved
by the user.
.PP
When the button is released  \fBdrop-mouse-1\fR  then the scrolling is stopped
by  unbinding  \fBmove-mouse-1\fR,  thereby  breaking the binding  between the
mouse moving and the scroll command.
.PP
The scrolling  utilizes  fractional  mouse positional  information (i.e. units
smaller  than  a  character  cell),  if  available,  resulting  in a  smoother
scrolling motion.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows how the command is used. 
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
0 define-macro mouse-scroll-pick
    1 set-scroll-with-mouse         ; Lock mouse position to scroller
    global-bind-key set-scroll-with-mouse "mouse-move-1"
!emacro

0 define-macro mouse-scroll-drop
    global-unbind-key "mouse-move-1"
!emacro

global-bind-key mouse-scroll-pick "mouse-pick-1"
global-bind-key mouse-scroll-drop "mouse-drop-1"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
When the left button is 'picked',  \fBmouse-scroll-pick\fR  lock the cursor to
the mouse and binds  mouse  movement  to  \fBset-scroll-with-mouse\fR  so that
whenever  the mouse is moved the cursor  will be  repositioned  appropriately.
When the button is 'dropped', the mouse movement is unbound so that the cursor
will no longer be locked to the mouse.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $mouse-pos 5 ,
.Ht $scroll-bar 5 ,
.Ht set-cursor-to-mouse 2 .
.ad
.FH
