.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m2mod001.2,v 1.3 2001-02-16 21:38:11 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH backup 2m
.XI backup - "Automatic file backup of last edit"
.SH NAME
backup \- Automatic file backup of last edit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "backup Mode"
.sp
\fBB\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B backup
mode, when enabled,  performs an automatic backup of the last edit when a save
file  operation  is  performed.  The backup file name is derived from the base
file  name  and is  written  into  the  same  directory  as the  source  file,
the backup file name can be obtained from the variable
.Ht $buffer-backup 5 . 
.PP
On unlimited  file name length systems the naming  convention  used depends on
bit \fB0x400\fR of variable
.Ht $system 5 ,
if this bit is set then the  system  simulates  a DOS  style  8.3 file  naming
convention. If this bit is clear then variable
.Ht $kept-versions 5
can be used to create multiple backup files.
.PP
Where an  existing  backup file  already  exists,  then the old backup file is
removed  and  replaced by the newer  backup  file. The naming  convention  for
backup files is defined as follows:-
.PP
.RS
On unlimited  length file name systems  (\s-1UNIX\s0 and some Windows systems)
with a single backup file, the following file naming  conventions are used for
file \fCxxxxx\fR:
.IP
.C "xxxxx -> xxxxx~"
.LP
On  unlimited  length  file name  systems  with  multiple  backup  files,  the
following file naming conventions are used for file \fCxxxxx\fR:
.IP
.C "xxxxx -> xxxxx.~?~"
.LP
Where  \fC?\fR is the backup  number, the most  recent  backup  file is always
"\fC.~0~\fR".
.PP
On  systems  with an  \fCxxxxxxxx.yyy\fR  file name  (\s-1MS-DOS\s0  etc), the
following file naming conventions are used:
.IP
.nf
.C "xxxxxxxx      -> xxxxxxxx.~~~"
.C "xxxxxxxx.yyy  -> xxxxxxxx.yy~"
.C "xxxxxxxx.yyyy -> xxxxxxxx.yyy~"
.fi
.RE
.PP
The environment variables
.Ht $MEBACKUPPATH 5
and
.Ht $MEBACKUPSUB 5
can be used to modify this behaviour.
.SH NOTES
\fBbackup\fR is enabled by default.
.PP
Reference should also be made to
.Ht undo 2
which allows previous edits to be removed. Also see
.Ht $auto-time 5
and
.Ht autosv 2m
which allows a timed backup of a running edit to be periodically performed.
.PP
The user is warned to be extra  careful if files ending in '\fC~\fR' or
\&'\fC#\fR's are used, it is advisable to disable backup creation (see
.Ht global-mode 2 )
and auto-saving  (\fC$auto-time = 0\fR). The author denies all  responsibility
(yet again) for any loss of data! Please be careful.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $buffer-backup 5 .
.Ht $system 5 ,
.Ht $kept-versions 5 ,
.Ht $MEBACKUPPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEBACKUPSUB 5 ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht global-mode 2 ,
.Ht undo 2m ,
.Ht autosv 2m ,
.Ht $auto-time 5 .
.ad
.FH
