.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m2mod031.2,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs modes
.so me.tni
.TH rbin 2m
.XI rbin - "Reduced binary editor mode"
.SH NAME
rbin \- Reduced binary editor mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "rbin Mode"
.sp
\fBr\fR \- mode line letter.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rbin
mode is  enabled  when a file is edited in  reduced  binary  mode. The mode is
automatically enabled when a file is loaded as a binary data file via
.Ht find-file 2 .
.PP
When a file is loaded using \fBrbin\fR mode, every 256 bytes is converted into
a line of text, the line is a single list of hex numbers 512 characters  long,
2 bytes for each character. This format is not very user friend unlike
.Ht binary 2m
mode, but is much more memory efficient (requiring  approximately 2 times more
memory than the file size).
.PP
When  writing  out a file which has rbin mode  enabled the format of each line
must  be  correct,  namely  an  even  number  of hex  numbers  with  no  other
characters.
.SH EXAMPLE
Given a single line \s-1MSDOS\s0 file:-
.CS
Live long and prosper.
.CE
When  loaded in using  \fBbinary\fR  mode the  following 2 line buffer will be
produced:-
.CS
4C697665206C6F6E6720616E642070726F737065722E0D0A1A
.CE
Note  the  "\fC0D  0A  1A\fR"  at  the  end,  this  is  due to  \s-1MSDOS\s0's
"\fC\\n\\r\fR"  carriage returns and \fC^Z\fR file termination. The given file
could be made \s-1UNIX\s0 compatible by editing the buffer to:-
.CS
4C697665206C6F6E6720616E642070726F737065722E0D
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
\fBrbin\fR  and  \fBbinary\fR  modes are mutually  exclusive, i.e. they cannot
both be enabled at the same time.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht binary 2m .
.ad
.FH
