.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 Jon Green.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m2nar001.2
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Aug 20 22:34:10 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Jon Green.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jon Green.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar001.2,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:03:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH Installation 1
.XI Installation - "Installation details for MicroEmacs"
.SH "INSTALLATION"
This page describes introductory notes for the installation and setup of \*(mE.
.SS "Quick Install"
The  quickest  way to  install  MicroEmacs  without  reading  the rest of this
document is to:-
.BS
Create a new directory i.e. \fCme\fR or \fCmicroemacs\fR.
.BU 
Unpack the macros archive into this directory.
.BU
Unpack any spelling dictionaries into this directory.
.BU
Unpack the executable into this directory.
.BU
Run \fCme\fR from this directory.
.BE
On starting, use the mouse and configure the user from the menu bar:-
.CS
Help->User Setup
.CE
This  allows the user and screen  settings  to be  altered. On  becoming  more
accustomed to the editor then a fuller installation may be performed.
.IP "\fBGetting Help\fR"
See
.Hl "Contact Information" Contact - 
for full contact information. A mail archive exists at:-
.RS
.CS
http://www.egroups.com/list/jasspa/
.CE
If you wish to participate in the list then you must first register by sending
an empty mail message body to:-
.CS
jasspa-subscribe@egroups.com
.CE
You will then be able to mail any questions  into the group.  Registration  is
required in order to prevent \fIspam\fR mailings from entering into the lists. 
.RE
.SS "Distribution"
MicroEmacs is distributed in the following files:-
.BP "Complete Installations"
The Microsoft  '95/'98/NT  platforms may be installed using the  \fBInstall\fR
\fBShield\fR  installation utility and do not require the components specified
in later sections.
.na
.nf
\fCme32inst.zip\fR \- '95/'98/NT Install Shield Installation
.fi
.ad
.BP "Executable Source Code"
The source code release for \*(mE  contains  makefiles  (\fC*.mak\fR)  for all
supported  platforms.  Microsoft  '95/'98/NT  makefiles contain options at the
top of the makefile to enable/disable console and URL support.
.na
.nf
\fCmesrc.zip\fR \- Source code for all platforms
\fCmesrc.tar.gz\fR \- Source code
.fi
.ad
.BP "Executable Images"
.na
.nf
\fCmedos.zip\fR \- DOS Executable
\fCmewin32.zip\fR \- Windows 32' (95/98/NT) Executable
\fCmewin32s.zip\fR \- Windows win32s (Win3.1/3.11) Executable
\fCmeirix5.gz\fR \- Silicon Graphics Irix 5 Executable
\fCmeirix6.gz\fR \- Silicon Graphics Irix 6 Executable
\fCmeaix34.gz\fR \- IBM's AIX 3.4 Executable
\fCmehpux9.gz\fR \- Hewlett Packard HP-UX 9 Executable
\fCmehpux10.gz\fR \- Hewlett Packard HP-UX 10 Executable
\fCmesunos55.gz\fR \- Sun OS 5.5 Executable
\fCmesunos56.gz\fR \- Sun OS 5.5 Executable
\fCmesolx86.gz\fR \- Sun Solaris 2.6 Intel Platform Executable
\fCmelinux20.gz\fR \- Linux 2.0.0 Executable
\fCmefreebsd.gz\fR \- Free BSD Executable
.fi
.ad
.IP "\fBHelp File Images\fR (all platforms)"
.na
.nf
\fCmewinhlp.zip\fR \- Windows Help file
\fCmehtm.zip\fR  \- HTML Help files for 8.3 file systems (.htm)
\fCmehtml.tar.gz\fR \- HTML Help files (.html)
.ad
.fi
.IP "\fBMacro File Images\fR (all platforms)"
.na
.nf
\fCmemacros.zip\fR \- Macro files
\fCmemacros.tar.gz\fR \- Macro files
.fi
.ad
.IP "\fBSpelling Dictionaries\fR (all platforms)"
One of the following base  dictionaries is required for spelling. The extended
dictionaries  require  the  base  dictionary  and are  recommended  for a more
comprehensive spelling list. Other languages are supported.
.IP
.na
.nf
\fCamerican.zip\fR \- American rules and base dictionary.
\fCamericax.zip\fR \- American extended dictionary.
\fCbritish.zip\fR \- British rules and base dictionary.
\fCbritishx.zip\fR \- British extended dictionary.
\fCdeutsch.zip\fR \- German rules and base dictionary.
\fCdeutschx.zip\fR \- German extended dictionary.
\fCespanol.zip\fR \- Spanish rules and dictionary.
\fCfrancais.zip\fR \- French rules and dictionary.
\fCportuges.zip\fR \- Portuguese rules and dictionary.
.sp 1
\fCamerican.tar.gz\fR \- American rules and base dictionary.
\fCamericax.gz\fR \- American extended dictionary.
\fCbritish.tar.gz\fR \- British rules and base dictionary.
\fCbritishx.gz\fR \- British extended dictionary.
\fCdeutsch.tar.gz\fR \- German rules and base dictionary.
\fCdeutschx.gz\fR \- German extended dictionary.
\fCespanol.tar.gz\fR \- Spanish rules and dictionary.
\fCfrancais.tar.gz\fR \- French rules and dictionary.
\fCportuges.tar.gz\fR \- Portuguese rules and dictionary.
.fi
.ad
.IP
.B NOTE:
The binary  versions of the executables  held on the site include the platform
name as part of the  executable  name i.e.  \fBme\fR  for  \fCDOS\fR is called
\fBmedos.exe\fR.  On  installing  the  binaries  onto the target  machine, you
should  rename  the  executable  to  \fBme\fR  or  \fBme.exe\fR,  whatever  is
appropriate.  The  ONLY  exception  to  this  rule  is the  Microsoft  Windows
executable where \fBmewin32.exe\fR should be renamed to \fBme32.exe\fR.
Our reason for this naming is to allow the  executables  to be  unpacked in the
same directory and not be confused with each other.
.SS "Quick Start Guild For All Platforms"
Simply  create a directory,  down-load  the files  required (see list for each
platform  below) and  extract  into this  directory.  From a shell or  command
prompt,  change to the directory,  making it the current one (i.e. \fBcd\fR to
it), and run the  executable.  \*(mE  should  open with the on-line  help page
visible.
.PP
On Windows based systems this can also be achieved by creating a short-cut and
setting the Working Directory in Properties to this path.
.PP
To enable \*(mS to be run from any directory, simply include this directory in
you \fBPATH\fR  environment  variable.  Alternatively,  copy the executable to
somewhere in your PATH and set the environment variable
.Hl MEPATH $MEPATH 5
to point to this directory.
.PP
\*(mE  will  function   normally  in  this   environment,  but  in  multi-user
environments  and for up-dating  purposes, it is strongly  recommended  that a
proper installation is used, see below.
.SS "Installation"
.B "DOS"
.RS
.IP Executable:
Compiled with DJGPP V1.0
.IP "Distribution components required:"
\fCmedos.zip\fR
.br
\fCmemacros.zip\fR
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.zip\fR
.sp 1
\fCmewinhlp.zip\fR if you are using windows 3.1/3.11
.IP "Recommended installed components:"
\fC4dos\fR \- Command shell (giving \fIstderr\fR redirection).
.br
\fCgrep\fR \- Version of grep (djgpp recommended)
.br
\fCmake\fR \- Version of make (djgpp recommended)
.br
\fCdiff\fR \- Version of diff (djgpp recommended)
.IP "Installation:"
Create the directory \fCc:\\me\fR (or other location)
.IP
Unzip the MicroEmacs components into \fCc:\\me\fR
.IP
Edit "\fCc:\\autoexec.bat\fR" and add the following lines:-
.RS
.CS
SET MENAME=<name>
SET PATH=%PATH%;c:\\me
SET MEPATH="c:\\me"
.CE
Reboot the system.
.IP
MicroEmacs may be run from the command line using
.CS
me
.CE 0
.RE
.IP "Graphics Cards:"
MicroEmacs may be configured to the text modes of your graphics card. Refer to
you graphics card DOS text modes to identify the text modes  supported by your
monitor.  The  text  mode  number  may  be  entered   into  the  user  monitor
configuration, defined in \fBHelp\fR->\fBUser Setup\fR.
.IP "Running From Windows (3.x)"
The DOS version of MicroEmacs may be executed from a \fB.pif\fR  file. Use the
pif editor to create a new \fB.pif\fR  file to launch  MicroEmacs. The size of
the DOS window may be configured  from the command line, set the terminal size
using one of the following command lines:-
.RS
.CS
me -c -v$TERM=E80x50        - 80 x 50 window
me -c -v$TERM=E80x25        - 80 x 25 window.
.CE
We  usually  add the \fC\-c\fR option so that  MicroEmacs  is  executed  with
history information. This may be omitted if required.
.RE
.RE
.PP
.ne 5
.B "Windows 3.1/3.11"
.RS
.IP Executable: 
Compiled with Microsoft Developer 2.0 
.IP "Helper DLL:"
Under \fBWin32s\fR a helper \s-1DLL\s0 \fBmethnk16.dll\fR is required to perform the 
.Ht pipe-shell-command 2
in   a   synchronous    manner.   This   should   be   installed    into   the
\fCC:\\WINDOWS\\SHELL\fR  directory. This (rather inelegantly) gets around the
problems of spawning a process under \fBwin32s\fR due to a number of Microsoft
bugs in the operating  system. Note: that on a spawn  operation a \fCMS-DOS\fR
window is  visible,  this is due to the  nature of the  command  shell on this
platform which has a tendency to prompt the user at every opportunity, hence a
certain amount of interaction (which is out of our control) is necessary.
.IP
The helper \s-1DLL\s0 is compiled with a 16-bit Windows compiler \- \s-1MSVC\s0 1.5.
.IP "Distribution components required:"
\fCmewin32s.zip\fR
.br
\fCmemacros.zip\fR
.br
\fCmewinhlp.zip\fR 
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.zip\fR
.IP "Recommended installed components:"
\fC4dos\fR \- command shell (giving \fIstderr\fR redirection)
.br
\fCgrep\fR \- Version of grep (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCdiff\fR \- Version of diff (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCmake\fR \- use nmake or GNU port of make.
.IP win32s
\fBwin32s\fR is a requirement on this platform, typically taken from 
.B pw1118.exe
which freely available on the Internet.
.IP "Installation:"
This version of Windows does not have a \fIinstall\fR directory as '95/'98 and
it is expected that the  \fCMS-DOS\fR  version will coexist. No \fIInstall\fR
\fIShield\fR  installation  is  provided.  Install  in a  directory  structure
similar to  \fCMS-DOS\fR.  Install  the helper \s-1DLL\s0  \fBmethnk16.dll\fR  in the
\fCC:\\WINDOWS\\SHELL\fR directory. Create a
.Ht me32.ini 8
file in the \fCC:\\WINDOWS\fR  directory to identify the location of the \*(mE
components, this much the same as the '95/'98 file, change the directory paths
to suite the install base.
.IP "Support Status:"
The  \fBwin32s\fR  release  has not been  used  with  vengeance,  although  no
specific problems have been reported with this release. 
.RE
.PP
.ne 5
.B "Windows '95/'98/NT"
.RS
.IP Executable:
Compiled with Microsoft Developer 5.0
.IP "Install Shield"
An \fBInstall Shield\fR version of \*(mS is available which includes all
of the distribution components.
.IP "Distribution components required:"
\fCmewin32.zip\fR
.br
\fCmemacros.zip\fR
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.zip\fR
.br
\fCmewinhlp.zip\fR (optional)
.IP "Recommended installed components:"
\fC4dos\fR or \fC4nt\fR \- command shell
.br
\fCgrep\fR \- Version of grep (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCdiff\fR \- Version of diff (GNU port of grep recommended)
.br
\fCmake\fR \- use nmake or GNU port of make.
.IP "Installation:"
Create the directory "\fCC:\\Program\ Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\fR" (or other location)
.IP
Unzip the MicroEmacs components into "\fCC:\\Program Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\fR"
.IP
Create the file "\fCc:\\windows\\me32.ini\fR" and add the following lines:-
.RS
.CS
[Defaults]
mepath=C:\\Program Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs
userPath=C:\\Program Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs
fontfile=dosapp.fon
.CE
Create a short cut to MicroEmacs for the Desktop
.PP
Right click on the desk top
.CS
=> New
=> Short
=> Command Line: "c:\\Program Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\\me.exe \-c"
=> Short Cut Name: "MicroEmacs"
.CE
MicroEmacs may be executed from the shortcut.
.RE
.IP "Open Actions"
Microsoft Windows 95/98/NT provide short cut actions, assigning an open action
to a file. The short  cuts may be  installed  from the  \fBInstall  Shieled\fR
installation,  but may  alternativelly  be  explictly  defined by editing  the
registry file with
.Hr regedit 1 .
.IP
A file open  action in the  registry is bound to the file file  extension,  to
bind a file  extension  \fI.foo\fR to the editor then the  following  registry
entries should be defined:-
.RS
.CS
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\.foo]
"MicroEmacs_foo"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\MicroEmacs_foo\\DefaultIcon]
"C:\\Program File\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\meicons,23"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\MicroEmacs_foo\\Shell\\open]
"&Open"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\MicroEmacs_foo\\Shell\\open\\command]
"C:\\Program File\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe -o "%1""
.CE 0
.RE
.IP 
In the previous exaple the \fIDefaultIcon\fR entry is the icon assigned to the
file.  This may be an icon  taken  from  \fCmeicons.exe\fR  (in this case icon
number 23), or may be some other icon. The open action in the example uses the
\fB-o\fR  option  of the  \fIclient-server\fR,  which  loads the file into the
current \*(mE session, alternatively the \fB-c\fR option may be used to retain
the previous context, or no option if a new session with no other files loaded
is started.
.IP
A generic open for \s-1ALL\s0  files may be defined using a wildcard, this may
be used to place a \fIMicroEmacs\fR  edit entry in the right-click popup menu,
as follows:-
.RS
.CS
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\*\\shell]
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\*\\shell\\MicroEmacs]
"&MicroEmacs"
[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\*\\shell\\MicroEmacs\\command]
"C:\\Program File\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe -o "%1""
.CE 0
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B UNIX
.RS
.IP "Executable:"
Compiled with native compilers.
.IP "Distribution Components Required:"
\fCme\fR\fI<unix>\fR\fC.gz\fR
.br
\fCmemacros.tar.gz\fR
.br
\fI<spelling>\fR\fC.gz\fR
.br
\fChtml.tar.gz\fR (optional)
.IP "Installation:"
It is recommended that all files are placed in \fC/usr/local\fR, although they
may be installed locally.
.IP
Unpack the executable and placed in "\fC/usr/local/bin\fR"
.IP
Create the new directory "\fC/usr/local/microemacs\fR", unpack and install the
\fCmemacros.tar.gz\fR into this directory.
.IP
For
.Hr csh 1
users  execute a "\fCrehash\fR"  command and then
.Ht me 1
can be executed from the command line.
.IP
By default a X-Windows  terminal is displayed, ensure that  \fC$DISPLAY\fR and
\fC$TERM\fR  are correctly  configured. To execute a terminal  emulation  then
execute  \fBme\fR  with the \fC\-n\fR  option i.e. "\fCme\  \-n\fR". Note that
this is not required if you are using a \fCvt100\fR emulation.
.RE
.SS "Organizing a local user profile"
MicroEmacs  uses  local user  configuration  profiles  to store user  specific
information. The user  information may be stored in the MicroEmacs  directory,
or more  typically in a users  private  directory.  The  environment  variable
\fC$MENAME\fR is typically used to determine the identity of the user.
.PP
The  location  of  the  user  profile  will  depend  upon  your   installation
configuration.
.BP "Single Machine"
For a  single  user  machine  it is  typically  easiest  to use the  installed
MicroEmacs  directory  where user  specific  files are  placed.  This  method,
although not  recommended, is simple as all files that are executed are in the
same location. The \fC$MEPATH\fR is not changed.
.BP UNIX
The  \s-1UNIX\s0  environment  is fairly easy and  operates as most other UNIX
applications.  The user should  create a  MicroEmacs  directory  in their home
directory for their own local configuration. Assigning a suitable name such as
"\fCmicroemacs\fR", or if the file is to be hidden "\fC.microemacs\fR".
.IP
The  \fC$MEPATH\fR  environment  variable  of the user  should be  modified to
include the users MicroEmacs path  \s-1BEFORE\s0 the default macros MicroEmacs
path i.e.
.RS
.IP "Ksh/Zsh:"
.C "export MEPATH=$HOME/microemacs:/usr/local/bin"
.IP "Csh/Bash:"
.C "setenv MEPATH $HOME/microemacs:/usr/local/bin"
.RE
.IP
Where \fC$HOME\fR is defined as "\fC/usr/<name>\fR" (typically by default).
.BP "DOS/Windows"
DOS and Windows are a little more tricky as numerous  directories  at the root
level are more than a little  annoying. It is suggested that the user directory
is created as a sub-directory of the MicroEmacs directory. i.e.
.RS
.IP
"\fCc:\\me\\\fR\fI<user>\fR" for DOS
.IP or
"\fCc:\\Program\ Files\\Jasspa\\MicroEmacs\\\fR\fI<user>\fR" for Windows
.RE
.IP
The \fC$MEPATH\fR  environment  variable  (see
.Ht me32.ini 8
for Windows) is
modified to include the user component before the MicroEmacs component
where \fC$MEPATH\fR is defined i.e.
.RS
.CS
SET MEPATH=c:\\me\\<user>;c:\\me
.CE
where \fC<user>\fR is the user name (or \fC$MENAME\fR).
.RE
.SS "Alternative Directory Configurations"
Numerous other configurations exist to organize the macro directories, to take
the directory organization to the extreme then it is sometimes easiest to keep
all of the macro components separate. An installation layout which encompasses
different macro directories for:-
.BS
User profiles - 1 per user.
.BU
Shared company profiles - 1 per organization.
.BU
MicroEmacs macros which are updated from time to time.
.BE
The configuration on different systems may be defined as follows:-
.BP "UNIX"
The shared files are placed in \fC/usr/local\fR
.RS
.CS
/usr
   \\
  local
     \\
  microemacs   - Spelling + standard macros
       \\
     company   - Company specific files
.CE
The user profile is stored in the users directory
.CS
/usr
  \\
<name>
    \\
 microemacs    - User specific files
.CE
The user should configure the \fC$MEPATH\fR as:
.CS
MEPATH=$(HOME)/microemacs:/usr/local/microemacs/company:/usr/local/microemacs
.CE 0
.RE
.BP "DOS/WINDOWS"
For \s-1DOS\s0 and MS-Windows environments, bearing in mind the problem of the
root  directory, then it is easier to use the "\fCme\fR"  directory as a place
holder for a number of sub-directories, using a configuration such as:-
.RS
.CS
            c:
            |
            me      - Place holder directory
          / | \\
        /   |   \\
   <name> macros company
.CE
The user should configure the \fC$MEPATH\fR as:-
.CS
SET MEPATH=c:\\me\\<name>;c:\\me\\company;c:\\me\\macros
.CE 0
.RE
.SS "User Profile Files"
Files contained in the user profiles typically include:-
.PP
\fI<name>\fR\fC.emf\fR \- The users start up profile.
.br
\fI<name>\fR\fC.edf\fR \- The users spelling dictionary.
.br
\fI<name>\fR\fC.erf\fR \- The users registry configuration file.
.PP
These  files are  established  from the menu  "\fBHelp\->User  Setup\fR".  The
"\fBSetup  Path\fR"  item  defines  the  location  of the  files,  but must be
\s-1MANUALLY\s0 included in the \fC$MEPATH\fR environment.
.SS "Company Profiles"
Company  profiles  include standard files and extensions to the standard files
which may be related to a company, this is typically \fI<company>\fR.emf where
\fI<company>\fR is the name of the company.
.PP
The directory may also include template files
.Ht etf 8
files which defines
the standard header template used in the files. Files in the "\fCcompany\fR"
directory would over-ride the standard template files.
.PP
The  company  directory  should be added to the  \fC$MEPATH\fR  after the user
profile and before the MicroEmacs standard macro directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Hl "Company Profiles" CompanyProfiles 2 ,
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Hl "File Language Templates" languageTemplates 2 ,
.Hl "User Profiles" UserProfiles 2 .
.ad
.FH
