.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 17 22:26:42 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar007.2,v 2.9 2004-01-10 13:46:37 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH "Build" 2
.XI "Build" - "Build"
.SH "BUILD"
\*(mE may be  compiled  from the source  files  using the command  shell build
scripts  \fIbuild\fR (UNIX Bourne Shell) or  \fIbuild.bat\fR  (DOS/Windows). A
default compile sequence may be achieved with a simple:
.CS
build
.CE
from the command line. The build script attempts to detect the host system and
available compiler and build the editor.
.PP
The build script recognizes the following options:-
.IP \fB\-C\fR
Build clean. Delete all of the object files.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Build a debugging  version, the output is \fCmed\fR (or \fCmed32\fR for 32-bit
Windows versions).
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Display a simple help page
.IP "\fB-l\fR \fIlogfile\fR"
Redirect all compilation output to the \fIlogfile\fR, this may not work on DOS
or Windows systems. 
.IP "\fB-la\fR \fIlogfile\fR"
Append all compilation  output to the end of \fIlogfile\fR,  this may not work
on DOS or Windows systems.
.IP "\fB-m\fR \fImakefile\fR"
Build using the specified  makefile.  over-riding  the auto system detect. The
supplied makefiles include:-
.RS
.BS
\fCaix43.mak\fR IBM AIX 4.3 native.
.BU
\fCaix43.gmk\fR IBM AIX 4.3 using GNU tools.
.BU
\fCcygwin.gmk\fR Cygwin using GNU tools under Windows.
.BU
\fCdosdj1.mak\fR Microsoft DOS build using djgpp version 1.
.BU
\fCdosdj2.mak\fR Microsoft DOS build using djgpp version 2.
.BU
\fCfreebsd.gmk\fR Free BSD using GNU tools.
.BU
\fChpux9.gmk\fR  HP-UX 9.x using GNU tools.
.BU
\fChpux9.mak\fR  HP-UX 9.x native
.BU
\fChpux10.gmk\fR HP-UX 10.x using GNU tools.
.BU
\fChpux10.mak\fR HP-UX 10.x native
.BU
\fChpux11.gmk\fR HP-UX 11.x using GNU tools.
.BU
\fChpux11.mak\fR HP-UX 11.x native
.BU
\fCirix5.gmk\fR Silicon Graphics IRIX 5.x using GNU tools
.BU
\fCirix5.mak\fR Silicon Graphics IRIX 5.x native
.BU
\fCirix6.gmk\fR  Silicon Graphics IRIX 6.x using GNU tools
.BU
\fCirix6.mak\fR Silicon Graphics IRIX 6.x native
.BU
\fClinux2.gmk\fR Linux 2.x using GNU tools
.BU
\fCopenbsd.gmk\fR OpenBSD using GNU tools.
.BU
\fCopenstep.mak\fR Openstep 4.2 on NeXTstep (BSD 4.3).
.BU
\fCsunos55.gmak\fR Sun Solaris 5.5 using GNU tools
.BU
\fCsunos55.mak\fR Sun Solaris 5.5 native
.BU
\fCsunos56.gmak\fR Sun Solaris 5.6 using GNU tools
.BU
\fCsunos56.mak\fR Sun Solaris 5.6 native
.BU
\fCsunosx86.gmk\fR Sun Solarais 2.6 (Intel) using GNU tools.
.BU
\fCwin32bc.mak\fR Borland C, 32-bit Windows version.
.BU
\fCwin32b55.mak\fR Borland C 5.5, 32-bit Windows version (Free compiler).
.BU
\fCwin32sv2.mak\fR Microsoft Developer v2.x, Win32s (for Win 3.xx)
.BU
\fCwin32sv4.mak\fR Microsoft Developer v4.2, Win32s (for Win 3.xx)
.BU
\fCwin32v2.mak\fR Microsoft Developer v2.x, 32-bit Windows.
.BU
\fCwin32v5.mak\fR Microsoft Developer v5.x, 32-bit Windows.
.BU
\fCwin32v6.mak\fR Microsoft Developer v6.x, 32-bit Windows.
.BE 0
.RE
.IP \fB\-ne\fR
Build NanoEmacs (a cut down version aimed as a vi replacement),  the output is
\fCne\fR (or \fCned32\fR for 32-bit Windows versions).
.IP \fB-S\fR
Build  spotless.  Deletes  all of the object  files and any backup  files, tag
files etc.
.IP "\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR"
Set the build type, where \fItype\fR can be one of the following:
.RS
.BS
\fCc\fR  Build a console only version (i.e. no window  support), the output is
\fCmec\fR (or \fCmec32\fR on Windows).
.BU
\fCw\fR  Build a windows only version (i.e. no console  support), the output is
\fCmew\fR (or \fCmew32\fR on Windows).
.BU
\fCcw\fR  Build a version which  supports both console and windows, the output
is \fCmecw\fR (or \fCmecw32\fR on Windows).
.BE 0
.RE
.IP \fB-u\fR
Build a URL version (Windows '95/'98/NT only),  constructs the executable
\fCmeu32.exe\fR.
.SS Makefiles
The supplied makefiles are provided in two forms:-
.BS
\fB.gmk\fR - GNU make, using gcc.
.BU
\fB.mak\fR - Native make,  consistent  with the compiler and  platform.
.BE
The makefiles are supplied with the following targets:-
.BS
\fBall\fR \- Default build.
.BU
\fBclean\fR \- Removes intermediate files.
.BU
\fBspotless\fR \- Removes intermediate files and any backup files.
.BU
\fBmed\fR \- Builds a debugging version.
.BU
\fBmen\fR \- Builds console version (Windows only).
.BU
\fBmen\fR \- Builds a URL version (Windows only).
.BU
\fBmenu\fR \- Builds console and URL version (Windows only).
.BE 0
.SH NOTES
Other  \s-1UNIX\s0  ports  should  be fairly  easy from the base set of ported
platforms. If any new platform ports are performed by individuals  then please
submit the makefiles and any source changes back to JASSPA \- see
.Hl "Contact Information" Contact - .
.FH
