.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Aug 20 22:34:10 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m2nar010.2,v 2.3 2004-02-03 19:59:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH SearchPaths 1
.XI SearchPaths - "Installation search paths for MicroEmacs"
.SH "INSTALLATION SEARCH PATHS"
This page describes the  installation and run-time search paths for MircoEmacs
and their  configuration  on various systems. The sections discuss a \fIsystem\fR or
\fIinstallation\fR  path which is the directory  containing the standard  macros and
spelling dictionaries. The \fIuser path\fR is the user private directory which
is both read and written by \*(mS. The \fIuser  path\fR  always appears before
the \fIsystem\fR directories on the search path. 
.PP
Directories  are  specified  as  \fIsearching\fR  if  a  search  operation  is
performed on the directory to look for subdirectories:-
.IP
.I .
\- root directory.
.br
.I company 
\- company files.
.br
.I macros
\- JASSPA standard macros.
.br
.I spelling
\- spelling dictionaries.
.SS "UNIX"
The defined search paths for \s-1UNIX\s0 are defined as follows:-
.PP
Default install directories:-
.IP
.I /opt/jasspa
\- searching (SunOS, HP-UX, AIX and IRIX only)
.br
.I /usr/share/jasspa
\- searching
.br
.I /usr/local/jasspa
\- searching
.br
.I /usr/local/microemacs
\- searching (Historical location)
.LP
The  default  user  location is defined as follows.  \*(mS  searches  for user
defined  configuration  files  in this  directory  and  will  write  new  user
configuration files to this directory.
.IP
\fI$(passwd-home)/.jasspa\fR \- searching
.PP
The  behaviour of the search may be  over-ridden  by setting some  environment
variables. 
.TP 
\fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  \- not searching
.\"
Specified as a single  pathname and redefines the users home  directory,  this
overrides the \fI$(passwd-home)/.jasspa\fR directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR \- searching
.\"
Specified as multiple  pathname  components and overrides the default  install
directory  location.  Typically used when the macro directory has been install
in another location that is not included in the default search path. This does
not affect the user directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEPATH\fR \- not searching
.\"
Overrides the \fI$(passwd-home)/.jasspa\fR and default search paths (including
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR),  \*(mS will use this  directory as the search path. The
user directory is assumed to be the FIRST  directory path in the string unless
the \fC$MEUSERPATH\fR environment variable is defined which specifies the user
path.
.SS "Windows"
The defined search paths for \s-1WINDOWS\s0 are defined as follows:-
.IP
Default search locations:-
.IP
\fIExecutable directory location\fR  \- searching
.LP
The default user  location is defined as follows.   \*(mS  searches  for user
defined  configuration  files  in this  directory  and  will  write  new  user
configuration files to this directory. 
.IP
\fI\\My Documents and Settings\\user\\Application Data\\jasspa\fR \- searching
.LP
If  the  system  does  not  define  a  home  location  then  (\fBWin95\fR  and
\fBWin32s\fR)  then a user  subdirectory  is  assumed  to  exist  in the  same
directory as the executable  with the same name as the user \fIlogin  name\fR,
if a name does not exists then \fI$MENAME\fR, otherwise \fIdefault\fR.
.PP
The  behaviour  of  the  search  may be  over-ridden  by  setting  environment
variables, see UNIX section. 
.SS "MS-DOS"
\s-1MS-DOS\s0 has not concept of user directory or user name.
.IP
Default search locations:-
.IP
\fIExecutable directory location\fR  \- searching
.LP
The  user  subdirectory  is  assumed  to  exist in the same  directory  as the
executable with the name \fI$MENAME\fR, otherwise "\fCdefault\fR".
.PP
The behaviour may be over-ridden by setting some environment variables. 
.TP 
\fC$MEUSERPATH\fR  \- not searching
.\"
Specified as a single  pathname and redefines the users home  directory,  this
overrides the \fIExecutable\fR directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR \- searching
.\"
Specified as multiple  pathname  components and overrides the default  install
directory  location.  Typically used when the macro directory has been install
in another  location that is not in the same directory as the executable. This
does not affect the user directory location.
.TP
\fC$MEPATH\fR \- not searching
.\"
Overrides the \fIExecutable...\fR and default search paths (including
\fC$MEINSTALLPATH\fR), \*(mS will use this directory as the search path. The
user directory is assumed to be the FIRST directory path in the string unless
the \fC$MEUSERPATH\fR environment variable is defined which specifies the user
directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Hl "Company Profiles" CompanyProfiles 2 ,
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 ,
.Hl "File Language Templates" languageTemplates 2 ,
.Hl "User Profiles" UserProfiles 2 .
.ad
.FH
