.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3fcl007.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 21:40:07 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl007.3,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH ntags 3f
.XI ntags - "Generate a nroff tags file"
.SH NAME
ntags \- Generate a nroff tags file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@ntags" \fI<files>\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file  \fCntags.emf\fR  may be invoked from the command line to
generate a \fBtags\fR file for nroff files.
.PP
Given a list of  \fIfiles\fR  a tags file  \fCtags\fR  is  generated  in the
current directory, which may be used by the 
.Ht find-tag 2
command. If no \fIfiles\fR  are specified the default file list is "\fC./\fR",
i.e. process the current  directory. If a directory name is given (such as the
default "\fC./\fR") all nroff files within the directory will be processed.
.PP
The value of variable  \fB%tag-option\fR is used to control the tag generation
process,  its value  \fI<flags>\fR  can  contain  any number of the  following
flags:
.IP \fCa\fR
Append  new tags to the  existing  tag  file,  note  that if also  using  flag
\&'\fCm\fR' multiple 'tags' to the same item may be created.
.IP \fCm\fR
Enable  multiple  tags. This enables the existence of 2 tags with the same tag
name, but typically with different locations. See help on
.Ht find-tag 2
for more information on multiple tag support.
.IP \fCr\fR
Enables  recursive mode, any sub-directory  found within any given directories
will also be processed.  
.SH NOTES
This function is invoked from menu 
.IP
.B "Tools -> Nroff Tools -> Create Tags File"
.LP
when the user requests a tags file to be generated.
.PP
The tags are generated from the nroff macro:-
.CS
\.XI <name> ......
.CE
which  indicates  an  index  entry,  where   \fI<name>\fR  is  the  tag  name.
\fI<name>\fR  may be delimited by double  quotes if any whitespace is present
in the string.
.PP
This is the  macro  definition  used in the \*(mS  documentation  system.  The
\fCntags.emf\fR  file should be edited and  shadowed in the user  directory if
some other  search  criteria  is used for nroff  files. This macro file should
provide a good starting point for any other search.
.PP
The user setup file  "\fCmyntags.emf\fR" is executed by ntags during start-up,
this file can be used to over-ride  any of the ntags  configuration  variables
(see below).
.PP
The  following  variables are set within  "\fCntags.emf\fR"  and are used to
control the process:-
.IP \fB%tag-option\fR
Tags options flag, default value is "". See above for more information.
.IP \fB%tag-filemask\fR
A list of source file masks to be processed when a directory is given, default
value is "\fC:*.nrs:*.[1-9]:*.n:\fR".
.IP \fB%tag-ignoredir\fR
A list of  directories  to be ignored when  recursive  option is used, default
value is "\fC:SCCS/:CVS/:\fR".
.PP
These  variables  can be changed using the -v  command-line  option or via the
"\fCmyntags.emf\fR" file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht start-up 3 ,
.Ht nroff 9 .
.ad
.FH
