.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3fcl003.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 21:40:07 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3fcl003.3,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filter
.so me.tni
.TH benchmrk 3f
.XI benchmrk - "Benchmark \*(mS macro processor speed"
.SH NAME
benchmrk \-  Benchmark \*(mS macro processor speed
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBme\fR "@benchmrk"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The start-up file  \fCbenchmrk.emf\fR  may be invoked from the command line to
time the macro processor variable manipulation times.
.PP
This macro suite was  developed to optimize the macro  processor  performance,
and allows comparable  analysis of various macro variable  manipulations.  The
macro is not  important  in it's own  right  and is not  likely to be  useful.
Running it will  provide an in-site  into the speed of the macro  language and
should indicate to the user what are good and bad things to be doing.
.PP
As an aside, as \*(mS  interprets  the macro code the it is important that the
processing operates at a reasonable speed. Most extensions offering additional
functionality are likely to be added to \*(mS by way of a macro implementation
- this allows speedy  development  of new features.  Obviously core changes do
occur when we find that we cannot support  certain new  requirements,  or when
the macro code becomes too  convoluted. In these cases, new commands are added
to help us  solve  the  problem.  However,  recent  evolution  of the code has
indicated that the core set is now reasonably complete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht start-up 3 .
.ad
.FH
