.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac016.3,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|games
.so me.tni
.TH Triangle 3
.XI Triangle - "\*(mE version of Triangle patience game"
.SH NAME
Triangle \- \*(mE version of Triangle patience game
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBTriangle\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBTriangle\fR  is a solitaire game using a standard set of playing cards. The
object  of the  game is to use all of the  cards  in the deck to build up four
suit stacks from Ace to King.
.PP
The board is laid out so that  every card is used to create a triangle  shape.
In the first column there is one up-turned card, in the second column there is
one  down-turned  card and 2  up-turned,  third  has 2 down 3 up etc. The only
break  form  this  pattern  is in the last 3 columns  where  there is an extra
up-turned card so that all the deck is used.
.PP
Cards may be moved  around the playing area by stacking the same suit cards in
descending order on the row stacks. When a row stack has no up-turned cards on
the stack  then the top card may be turned  over and may be played. If a stack
becomes empty then only a King may be moved into the vacant position.
.PP
If the last card in a stack is an Ace then it can be moved to its suit  stack,
then the 2 of that suit etc. until finally the King is removed.
.PP
Cards are moved  around the board using the mouse. Cards may be moved from one
row stack to another  row stack by placing the mouse over the 'from' stack and
pressing the left mouse  button. Move the cursor to the 'to' stack and release
the left mouse  button. If the move is legal then the card(s) are moved to the
new stack.  Multiple  cards may be moved from the row stacks, the  appropriate
card(s) to be moved is automatically determined.
.PP
Cards  may be moved  onto the suit  stacks by a single  left  mouse  press and
release on the same card, the card is moved to the appropriate suit stack. The
same technique is used to turn cards over in the suit stacks.
.PP
Note  that  once a card is  played  onto the suit  stacks  then it  cannot  be
removed.
.PP
To the  right of the  board  are a number  of  control  buttons.  To select an
option, click the left mouse button on it, the buttons are labeled:
.IP \fBDEAL\fR
Start a new game by dealing new cards.
.IP \fBQUIT\fR
Exit the game
.IP \fBHELP\fR
This help page
.PP
Note that the screen may be updated at any time using "\fIC-l\fR".
.SH NOTES
\fBTriangle\fR is a macro defined in \fCtriangle.emf\fR.
.PP
The  game is best  played  with a  mouse,  it is  possible  to play  with  the
keyboard, as follows:-
.IP
"\fIesc h\fR" for help
.IP
To move a card between stacks enter the source and  destination  column number
("\fI1\fR","\fI2\fR",.."\fI7\fR").
.IP
To  overturn a card on the row stacks  then enter the card  column  twice i.e.
source and destination are the same.
.IP
To move a card  from the row to the suit  stacks  then  either  enter the card
column       twice,       or       enter       the        destination       as
"\fIh\fR","\fId\fR","\fIc\fR","\fIs\fR"  (i.e. "\fI2  2\fR" or "\fI2  s\fR" to
move the card in column 2 to the spades stack).
.IP
"\fIC-c C-c\fR" to deal the cards again.
.IP
"\fIC-l\fR" redraw the screen.
.IP
"\fIq\fR" to quit the game.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl Games Games - ,
.Ht Patience 3 ,
.Ht Mahjongg 3 .
.ad
.FH
