.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac042.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|shell
.so me.tni
.TH execute-tool 3
.XI execute-tool - "Execute a user defined shell tool"
.SH NAME
execute-tool \- Execute a user defined shell tool
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fIn\fR \fBexecute-tool\fR "\fItool-name\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBexecute-tool\fR  launches a predefined  shell tool, the tools are typically
defined by the
.Ht user-setup 3
Tools page and executed using the \*(mS main Tools menu. See help on
.Ht user-setup 3
for more information on the basic facilities given by execute-tool.
.PP
If the numeric  argument \fIn\fR is supplied it is used as the tool name to be
executed, otherwise the argument "\fItool-name\fR" must be given.
.PP
A tool with a numeric  name can be executed via a key binding, for example, to
execute tool \fB3\fR (as defined by  \fBuser-setup\fR)  to '\fCC-3\fR' add the
following line to the user setup file:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
3 global-bind-key execute-tool "C-3"
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The  registry  entries  for a tool  must  be  located  in  registry  directory
"\fC/history/\fR\fB$platform\fR\fB/tool/\fR\fBtool-name\fR"              where
\fB$platform\fR is the current setting of variable
.Ht $platform 5
and  \fBtool-name\fR  is the  name of the  tool as given to the  command.  The
following registry entries are used:-
.IP "\fBname\fR"
The name of the tool as displayed in the user-setup  Tools dialog and the Main
Tools menu. This is only used for tools \fC0\fR to \fC9\fR.
.IP "\fBcommand\fR"
The  command-line  to be launched  when the tool is  executed,  the  following
special  tokens  may be used in the  command-line  which  are  substituted  at
execution:-
.RS
.IP "\fB%ff\fR"
The current  buffer's full file name, including the path.
.IP "\fB%fp\fR"
The current  buffer's file path.
.IP "\fB%fn\fR"
The current  buffer's file name without the path.
.IP "\fB%fb\fR"
The current  buffer's  file base name, i.e. the file name  without the path or
the  extension.
.IP "\fB%fe\fR"
The current  buffer's file  extension with the '\fI.\fR' (e.g.  "\fI.emf\fR"),
set to the empty string if the file name does not have an extension.
.RE
.IP
Note   that   "\fB%ff\fR"   is   always   the  same  as   "\fB%fp%fn\fR"   and
"\fB%fp%fb%fe\fR".  If any of these  tokens  are used, the tool  will  fail to
execute if the current buffer does not have a file name.
.IP "\fBflag\fR"
A bit based flag setting the tool characteristics, where:-
.RS
.IP "\fB0x01\fR"
Enable current buffer saving. 
.IP "\fB0x02\fR"
Enable prompt before saving current buffer. 
.IP "\fB0x04\fR"
Enable all edited buffers saving. 
.IP "\fB0x08\fR"
Enable prompt before saving an edited buffer. 
.IP "\fB0x10\fR"
Enable output capturing. 
.IP "\fB0x20\fR"
Enable concurrent running, not available on all platforms, see variable
.Ht $system 5 .
.RE
.IP "\fBbname\fR"
The name of the  buffer to be used if the output is  captured.  The  following
special  tokens  may be used in the  buffer  name  which  are  substituted  at
execution:-
.RS
.IP "\fB%fn\fR"
The current  buffer's file name without the path, set to the buffer name if the
current buffer does not have a file name.
.IP "\fB%fb\fR"
The current  buffer's  file base name, i.e. the file name  without the path or
the  extension.  Set to the buffer name if the current  buffer does not have a
file name.
.IP "\fB%fe\fR"
The current  buffer's file  extension with the '\fI.\fR' (e.g.  "\fI.emf\fR"),
set to the empty string if the current  buffer does not have a file name or it
does not have an extension.
.RE
Note that  "\fB%fn\fR" is always the same as  "\fB%fb%fe\fR".  Default  buffer
name when this field is left empty is "\fI*command*\fR", or "\fI*icommand*\fR"
if \fCRun Concurrently\fR is enabled.
.PP
If  more  than  10  tools  are   required   (maximum   number   definable   by
\fBuser-setup\fR)   or  names  are  preferred, it  is  recommended   that  the
\fBuser-setup\fR  dialog is used to define the tool and then use the  registry
copy utility bound to '\fCc\fR' in a
.Ht list-registry 2
buffer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 ,
.Ht pipe-shell-command 2 ,
.Ht shell-command 2 ,
.Ht system 5 .
.ad
.FH
