.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Aug 31 21:02:32 1998
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac031.3,v 2.10 2009-08-29 17:13:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH man 3
.XI man - "UNIX manual page viewer"
.XI man-clean - "Clean UNIX manual page"
.XI %man-com 5 "Man Command line" variable|shell
.SH NAME
.Me "|man"
man \- UNIX manual page viewer.
.br
.Me "|man-clean"
man-clean - Clean UNIX manual page.
.br
.Me "|%man-com"
%man-com \- Man Command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBman\fR
.br
\fBman-clean\fR
.br
.B %man-com
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBman\fR  provides  a  mechanism  to display a UNIX  manual  page  within the
MicroEmacs  window. On invoking \fBman\fR the user is prompted for the name of
the manual page to display:-
.CS
Man on ?
.CE
The name of the manual page (and any options) are entered on the command line.
The macro invokes the UNIX utility
.Hr man 1
to  generate  the page and  displays  the  results  in a window.  The man page
executable may be defined with the variable
.B %man-com
this is defined as \fCman\fR by default.
.PP
Another  manual  page can be selected by either  moving the cursor to the link
and pressing return or double clicking on it with the left mouse button. \*(mS
will then attempt to load and display the selected manual page.
.PP
\fBman-clean\fR  removes any man-page formatting codes from the current buffer
reducing a manual page to plain text. The formatting  codes are used to create
the bold and  underline  fonts. This allows the page to be treated as a normal
buffer, i.e. string searches and other similar command will work as expected.
.SH NOTES
\fBman\fR and \fBman-clean\fR are macros defined in \fChkman.emf\fR.
.PP
.B man
is only made available within \s-1UNIX\s0  environments, the \s-1UNIX\s0 start
up file \fCunixterm.emf\fR  links in the macro. If the \fBman\fR
utility is required  on other  platforms  then the  following  definition  is
required in a start-up file.
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
define-macro-file hkman man
.CE
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
On Microsoft Windows environments, if the \fBcygwin\fR directory is located then
.B man
is enabled and uses the \fBcygwin\fR 
.Hr man 1
utility and manual pages.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hr man 1 ,
.Ht man 9 ,
.Ht cygwin 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 .
.ad
.FH
