.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac066.3,v 2.3 2004-01-22 00:56:47 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH toolbar 3
.XI toolbar - "Open the tool bar"
.XI toolbar-close - "Close the tool bar" 
.XI toolbar-refresh - "Update the tool bar" command|macrodevelop
.SH NAME
.Me "|toolbar"
toolbar \- Open the tool bar.
.br
.Me "|toolbar-close"
toolbar-close \- Close the tool bar
.br
.Me "|toolbar-refresh"
toolbar-refresh \- Update the tool bar
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B toolbar
.br
.B toolbar-close
.br
.B toolbar-refresh
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  toolbar  is one or  more  fixed  buffers  that  typically  appear  at the
left-hand  edge of the window  that  contains  different  tools that assist in
editing  the  buffer. The  toolbar is really a  container  for tools and short
cuts  which are  configured  by the user  depending  on the tool that has been
loaded. The tools themselves are buffer context sensitive, the 
.Ht buffer-init 3 
command automatically re-configures the toolbar for the buffer at run time.
.PP
The configuration of the toolbar is stored in command variables
.C .toolvar.*
which are used to control the toolbar. The tools that are available in toolbar
are  determined  from the file  \fCtoollist.emf\fR  which is  loaded  when the
toolbar is started.  User  defined  toolbars may be added by  redefinging  the
toolbar variables at runtime.
.PP
.B toolbar
initializes  and starts the toolbar if it is not already  running. The toolbar
is loaded and  instantiated  in the system. The  toolbar  may be  subsequently
closed using 
.BR toolbar-close .
Whilst the  toolbar is running  then the content of the tollbar may become out
of date, the command 
.Ht toolbar-refresh 3
forces the toolbar to be re-evaluated and the content is updated.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The toolbar is configured  with command  variables  \fB.toolbar.*\fR.  The size
information of the toolbar is defined with the following variables:-
.IP "\fI.toolbar.width\fR"
Defines the default width of the left-hand vertical toolbar.
.IP "\fI.toolbar.depth\fR"
Defines the default depth of the top horizontal toolbar.
.LP
The tools within the toolbar are configured with the following variables. Each
variable is divided  into  fields,  each field  represents  a single tool. The
fields are separated with the \fC\\CH\fR  character. The order of the fields MUST
be the same in each of the variables  such that the field content  matches the
tool that is being defined.
.IP "\fI.tool-flag\fR"
The  \fB.tool-flag\fR  variable  describes  the  behaviour of the tool, this is
defined as a bitmask as follows:-
.RS
.TP
\fC0x000001\fR \- Update on creation
.\"
Call the tool  update  command  when the tool is  created,  this is  typically
required when the content of the toolbar is generated.
.TP
\fC0x000002\fR \- Update on redraw
.\"
Call the tool  update  command  when a 
.Hl redraw recenter 2 
operation has been performed.
.TP
\fC0x000004\fR \- Buffer type changed
.\"
Call the tool  update  command  when the buffer type has  changed, a change of
buffer type requires that a buffer specific tool is reconfigured.
.TP
\fC0x000008\fR \- Current buffer changed
.\"
Call the tool  update  command  when the current buffer is changed, a change of
buffer buffer requires that a buffer content specific tool is reconfigured.
.TP
\fC0x000010\fR \- Current buffer modified or saved
.\"
Call the tool  update  command  when the current buffer is modified or saved.
.TP
\fC0x000080\fR \- Perform update checks
.\"
On an update check the toolbar for changes in content.
.TP
\fC0x000100\fR \- Lock depth and width
.\"
Lock the depth and width of the tool.
.TP
\fC0x000200\fR \- Tool uses a paged window
.\"
The tool uses a paged window in the toolbar (i.e. only one tool has focus).
.TP
\fC0x000400\fR \- Tool is hidden
.\"
The tool is  currently  hidden.  When in this  state the not  active  sub-page
\fC0x200\fR will also be set.
.TP
\fC0x000800\fR \- Tool paged window, not first user.
.\"
The tool is part of a paged window and is not the first tool.
.TP
\fC0x001000\fR \- position in the left toolbar
.\"
The tool is  present  in the left  toolbar,  on toolbar  creation  the tool is
automatically loaded into the toolbar.
.TP
\fC0x002000\fR \- position in the top toolbar
.\"
The tool is  present  in the top  toolbar,  on  toolbar  creation  the tool is
automatically loaded into the toolbar.
.TP
\fC0x004000\fR \- position in the right toolbar
.\"
The tool is  present in the right  toolbar,  on toolbar  creation  the tool is
automatically loaded into the toolbar.
.TP
\fC0x008000\fR \- position in the bottom toolbar
.\"
The tool is present in the bottom  toolbar,  on toolbar  creation  the tool is
automatically loaded into the toolbar.
.TP
\fC0x010000\fR \- Include buffer type in mode-line (Prefix)
.\"
The buffer type is included in the toolbar mode line as a prefix.
.TP
\fC0x020000\fR \- Include buffer name in mode-line (suffix)
.\"
The buffer name is included in the toolbar mode line as a suffix.
.TP
\fC0x040000\fR \- Include buffer filename in mode-line (suffix)
.\"
The buffer file name is included in the toolbar mode line as a suffix.
.TP
\fC0x100000\fR \- Restore window location after an update
.\"
The  position  of the  hilighted  line in the  toolbar  is  restored  after an
update.
.TP
\fC0x200000\fR \- Move position to beginning of buffer after an update
.\"
The  position  of the  hilighted  line is  restored  to the top of the  buffer
following an update.
.br
.RE
.IP "\fI.toolbar.tool-name\fR"
The name of the tool that is displayed to the user.
.IP "\fI.toolbar.tool-descs\fR"
A short description of the tool which is used in the tool selection dialog.
.IP "\fI.toolbar.tool-buffs\fR"
The name of the buffer which is used to store toolbar  information.  The names
are usually \fB*name*\fR so that they are not saved.
.IP "\fI.toolbar.tool-files\fR"
The macro file to load when the tool is loaded, if a tool is not used then the
macros that define the tool are not loaded.
.IP "\fI.toolbar.tool-cmds\fR"
The creation and update commands to run when the command is created.
.SH FILES
Notable toolbox macro files:-
.BS  
\fCtoolbar.emf\fR \- The main toolbar file.
.BU
\fCtoolstp.emf\fR  \- The toolbar setup menu i.e. the right click of the mouse
on the toolbar mode line.
.BU
\fCtoollist.emf\fR \- List off tools available in the toolbar.
.BU
\fCbookmark.emf\fR \- The bookmark tool.
.BU 
\fCtoolstd.emf\fR  \- Basic tools (Info, Buffer list)
.BU
\fCabbrlist.emf\fR \- The buffer tools and buffer abbreviation tools.
.BU
\fCitemlist.emf\fR \- Buffer item list tool.
.BU 
\fCkilllist.emf\fR \- The kill list tool.
.BE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht osd 2 ,
.Ht recenter 2 .
.ad
.FH
