.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        : MicroEmacs
.\"  Module        : gdiff
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac044.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Wed Jun 30 23:44:57 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac044.3,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell|comparison
.so me.tni
.TH gdiff 3
.XI gdiff - "Graphical file difference" command|shell
.XI %gdiff-com 5 "Gdiff command line" variable
.SH NAME
gdiff \- Graphical file difference
.br
%gdiff-com \- Gdiff diff(1) command line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.Me "|gdiff"
.B gdiff
"\fIversion1\fR"
"\fIversion2\fR"
.sp
.Me "|%gdiff-com"
\fC%gdiff-com\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fCdiff -c -w\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gdiff
is a macro utility that  facilitates the merging of two files  (typically with
different  modification  revisions).  The changes  between the  revisions  are
hilighted with color, allowing  modification  regions and lines to be selected
for the  generation of a newer revision file, which might  encompass  selected
modifications from each of the base revisions.
.PP
.B gdiff
executes the
.Hr diff 1
command with the command line set by the
.Ht %gdiff-com 5
variable and the user supplied  \fIversion1\fR and  \fIversion2\fR. The output
is displayed in two buffer  windows, side by side, and the  differences in the
lines are  hilighted  to show the changes. In addition  the content of the two
buffers is  \fInormalized\fR  such that both  windows  are aligned at the same
line  position,  allowing the changes in the text to be viewed in both windows
at the same time.
.PP
Whilst  in  \fBgdiff\fR  view  mode then both  scroll  bars (if  visible)  are
\fIlocked\fR, such that either scrolls  \s-1BOTH\s0  windows at the same time.
Other key commands are disabled, as are the menu  interactions.  The short cut
keys are defined as follows:-
.TP
\fCesc h/A-h\fR \- View the help page.
.\"
Invokes the display of a OSD help box, summarizing the interaction commands
.TP
\fCC-up\fR \- Move to previous difference
.\"
Moves to the previous changed region above the current cursor position.
.TP
\fCC-down\fR \- Move to next difference
.\"
Moves to the next changed region below the current cursor position.
.PP
\fCleft mouse button\fR
.br
\fCspace\fR
.br
\fCenter\fR
.br
\fCr\fR \- Select difference version
.br
.RS
Selects the difference version of the currently selected window. The region is
hilighted as the required region to be incorporated into the new revision.
.RE
.TP
\fCR\fR \- Select neither version.
.\"
Marks both regions as not required.
.TP
\fCl\fR \- Line select current version
.\"
Selects the current line from the region as being included, without  including
\s-1ALL\s0 of the region modifications.
.TP
\fCL\fR \- Line select neither version
Discards lines from both revisions of the file.
.TP
\fCg\fR \- Globally selects the current version.
.\"
Shortcut allows  \s-1ALL\s0  modifications to the current side to be accepted.
This is  typically  the fastest  method to select all  changes,  minor  region
adjustment  may then be performed on those  regions which are  inappropriately
included by the selection.
.TP
\fCG\fR \- Globally selects neither version.
.\"
Marks all regions as not being acceptable.
.TP
\fCC-x C-s\fR \- Save current side
.\"
Saves the current window to the specified  file, merging the selected  changes
between the two revisions.  Note that the save only operates iff all hilighted
changes have been selected.
.TP
\fCC-x C-w\fR \- Save current side as
.\"
Same as \fBSave  current  side\fR  except the user is  prompted to enter a new
filename to which the modifications are written.
.TP
\fCC-x k\fR \- Exit graphical diff
.\"
Exits the \fBgdiff\fR utility.
.SS "Hilighting"
The hilighting within the windows is dependent upon the color scheme selected,
in general the following hilights apply:-
.IP "normal text"
No change
.IP "cyan/grey"
Addition/removal of line(s)/region(s) between files.
.IP "yellow"
Modification in line(s)/region(s).
.IP "green/red"
Selected region, red or green is attributed to a selection for each window.
.SH NOTES
\fBgdiff\fR is a macro defined in \fCgdiff.emf\fR,  inspired by the \s-1GNU\s0
utility of the same name
.Hr gdiff 1
.PP
.Hr diff 1
must be executable on the system before \fBgdiff\fR can function. The
.Hr diff 1
invocation  must include the  \fIcontext\fR  difference,  which  annotates the
differences with a \fC+\fR, \fC-\fR or \fC!\fR markers.
.Hr diff 1
is typically invoked with the options \fB-c -w\fR.
.PP
.Hr diff 1
is a standard utility on UNIX systems. For Windows 95/NT a version of GNU
.B diff
may be found at:
.IP
.I "<ftp.winsite.com/ftp/pub/pc/winnt/misc/gnudiff.zip>"
.LP
For MS-DOS users, a DJGPP port of GNU \fBdiff\fR is also available on the net.
A commercial version of \fBdiff\fR is also available from MKS.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht compare-windows 2 ,
.Ht compile 3 ,
.Hr diff 1 ,
.Ht gdiff 3f ,
.Ht grep 3 ,
.Ht %grep-com 5 .
.ad
.FH
