.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac018.3,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:29:16 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH etfinsrt 3
.XI etfinsrt - "Insert template file into current buffer"
.SH NAME
etfinsrt \- Insert template file into current buffer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBetfinsrt\fR
"\fItemplate\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBetfinsrt\fR  is generally called by file hooks when the new buffer has been
created as opposed to loaded from a file (see
.Ht $buffer-fhook 5 ).
.PP
\fBetfinsrt\fR uses
.Ht &find 4
to locate and insert the required  "\fItemplate\fR.etf"  file. If  successful,
\fBetfinsrt\fR then replaces the following strings in the template:
.IP \fC$ASCII_TIME$\fR
To the current time. Inserts the output of
.Ht ascii-time 3 .
.IP \fC$BUFFER_NAME$\fR
To the buffer name. The name is  capitalized,  '.'s are replaced  with '_' and
any  trailing  "\fI<##>\fR"  digits  (used to make the buffer name unique) are
removed. 
.IP \fC$COMPANY_NAME$\fR
To the value of  \fB%company-name\fR,  or if not defined to the value used for
\fC$USER_NAME$\fR.  \fB%company-name\fR is usually set up in the company setup
file defined in User setup.
.IP \fC$USER_NAME$\fR
To the  value  of the  registry  entry  "\fC/history/user-name\fR",  or if not
defined to the value "\fC<unknown>\fR". The user name is usually set up in the
User setup dialog.
.IP \fC$YEAR$\fR
To the current year (4 digit number).
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is taken from  hkmake.emf  and inserts the  "\fImakefile.etf\fR"
template if the buffer has been created. 
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro fhook-make
    ; if arg is 0 this is a new file so add template 
    !if &not @#
        etfinsrt "makefile"
    !endif
    set-variable $buffer-hilight .hilight.make
    -1 buffer-mode "tab"		; Normal tabs please !!!
    1 buffer-mode "indent"
    1 buffer-mode "time"
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
\fBetfinsrt\fR is a macro defined in \fCetfinsrt.emf\fR.
.PP
.Ht magic 2m
mode is always used to perform the the  search/replace  so the replace strings
should be appropriate for \fBmagic\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $buffer-fhook 5 ,
.Ht &find 4 ,
.Ht ascii-time 3 .
.ad
.FH
