.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"  			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        : 
.\"  Module        : 
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac045.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 18:16:21 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description	
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"	
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied, 
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac045.3,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs scuts|bind
.so me.tni
.TH iso-accents-mode 3
.XI iso-accents-mode - "ISO accent expansion short-cut mode" 
.XI iso-accents-expand - "Expand an ISO accent" 
.SH NAME
.Me "|iso-accents-mode"
iso-accents-mode \- Enable/disable ISO accent expansion short-cut mode
.br
.Me "|iso-accents-expand"
iso-accents-expand \- Expand an ISO accent
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B iso-accents-mode
.br
.I n
.B iso-accents-expand
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBiso-accents-mode\fR provides a facility to enter a plain text representation
of an ISO accent and then to expand it into a proper ISO  accented  character.
For example:-
.IP
.na
.nf
\fC`a\fR => small a, grave accent
\fC^a\fR => small a, circumflex accent
\fC'a\fR => small a, acute accent
\fC"a\fR => small a, umlaut
\fC~a\fR => small a, tilde
\fC.a\fR => small a, ring
\fC14\fR => fraction, one-quater
\fC12\fR => fraction, one-half
\fC34\fR => fraction, three-quaters
\fCae\fR => ae ligature
\fCsz\fR => small sz ligature, German.
\fC+-\fR => plus or minus (math.)
\fCco\fR => copyright
\fCrg\fR => registered trademark
\fCtm\fR => trade mark
\fCoe\fR => small oe ligature
\fC/o\fR => small o, slash
.fi
.ad
.PP
In order to use the ISO accent  expansion  then it must be  installed,  either
from  the  command  line  or,  for a more  permanent  installation,  from  the
\fIuser\fR.emf   file.   Installation   is   performed   using   the   command
\fBiso-accents-mode\fR,  if \fIn\fR is specified (any non-zero  numeric value)
then the ISO accent expansion is installed locally into the current buffer. If
\fIn\fR is omitted then expansion is available  globally (across all buffers).
An argument of 0 and the \fBiso-accents-mode\fR is un-installed.
.PP
.B iso-accents-expand
is the macro command that expands the ISO abbreviated  character sequence into
it's ISO ASCII  character  equivalent.  This is by default  bound to \fCESC\fR
\fCESC\fR. If an ISO character is not located then
.Ht expand-abbrev 2
is invoked to try a standard abbreviation.
.SH NOTES
\fBiso-accents-mode\fR and  \fBiso-accents-expand\fR are implemented as macros
in the file  \fClangutl.emf\fR, the repertoire of expansions may be enhanced by
editing this file. 
.PP
The  operation  of  the  \fBiso-accents-mode\fR   could  equally  as  well  be
implemented with the appropriate definitions in a
.Ht global-abbrev-file 2 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-abbrev-file 2 ,
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ,
.Ht global-abbrev-file 2 ,
.Ht global-abbrev-file 2 .
.ad
.FH
