.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 18:16:21 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac056.3,v 2.4 2002-01-11 21:58:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell|command|scuts|osd
.so me.tni
.TH generate-tags-file 3
.XI generate-tags-file - "Generate a tags file"
.SH NAME
generate-tags-file \- Generate a tags file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B generate-tags-file
[ "\fItag-command\fR" ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBgenerate-tags-file\fR  command  provides  an  interface  to  tag  file
generation. Typically the "\fItag-command\fR" argument will not be required as
the current buffer will automatically  configure  \fBgenerate-tags-file\fR  on
how tags are  generated  for the  current  buffer's  file  type. See the notes
below for more information on configuration. 
.PP
\fBgenerate-tags-file\fR  supports two  different  methods of tag  generation,
firstly via a \*(mS macro file and secondly by an external shell command (such
as
.Hr ctags 1 ).
It is generally configured in the current buffer's
.Hl "setup hook" fileHooks 2 .
.PP
If a macro file is used a setup  dialog is opened if an argument of 0 is given
to  \fBgenerate-tags\fR.  This dialog can be used to  configure  which type of
tags are required and the starting directory (useful when using recursive tags
over a source  tree). Note that not all tag types are  available  for all file
types.
.PP
The generated tags file can then be used by the
.Ht find-tag 2
command.
.SH NOTES
\fBgenerate-tags-file\fR is a macro defined in file \fCgentags.emf\fR.
.PP
\fBgenerate-tags-file\fR can be configured in one of 2 ways:
.RS
.PP
When a \*(mS macro file (such as  \fCctags.emf\fR)  is to be used, simply give
the  name of the  macro  file to be run as the  "\fItag-command\fR"  argument.
Alternatively set the variable \fB.\fR\fI<$buffer-fhook>\fR\fB.tags\fR to this
name, e.g. for C files
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
    set-variable .fhook-c.tags "ctags"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Note the "\fC.emf\fR" extension is assumed.
.PP
When an external shell command is to be used, set the \fItag-command\fR to the
shell command-line prefixed with a '\fC!\fR' character, for example to use
.Hr ctags 1
try the following:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
    set-variable .fhook-c.tags "!ctags *.c *h"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Note that the generate-tags dialog is not available in this mode of execution.
.RE 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-tag 2 .
.ad
.FH
