.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"  			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        : 
.\"  Module        : 
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac043.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sun May 9 11:55:47 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description	
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"	
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied, 
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.Id $Id: m3mac043.3,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs help
.so me.tni
.TH info 3
.XI info - "Display a GNU Info database" command|help
.XI info-on - "Display Info on a given topic" command|help
.XI info-goto-link - "Display Info on a given link" command|help
.XI $INFOPATH 5 "GNU info files base directory" variable|help
.\".XI .info.path 5 "Cached info search path" variable|help
.SH NAME
.Me "|info"
info \- Display a GNU Info database
.br
.Me "|info-on"
info-on \- Display Info on a given topic
.br
.Me "|info-goto-link"
info-goto-link \- Display Info on a given link
.br
.Me "|$INFOPATH"
\s-1$INFOPATH\s0 \- GNU info files base directory
.br
.Me "|.info.path"
\&.info.path \- Cached info search path
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B info
.sp 1
.B info-on
.I topic-str
.sp 1
.B info-goto-link
.I link-str
.sp 1
.B $INFOPATH
.I string
.sp 1
.B .info.path
.I string
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinfo\fR
interprets the GNU \fIinfo\fR pages, and presents the info file information
within a buffer window called \fC*info\ XXXXX\fR, where \fCXXXXX\fR is the
name of the info file. The root of the info page is displayed and may be
traversed by selecting the links with the mouse, or by using the standard
\fIinfo\fR traversal keys.
.PP
The root of the \fIinfo\fR tree is, by default, a file called \fBdir\fR, which
points to the other  information  sources.  The default  search  paths for the
\fIinfo\fR directories are:-
.IP
\fCc:/info\fR \- \s-1MS-DOS\s0 and MS-Windows (all).
.br
\fC/usr/local/info\fR \- All \s-1UNIX\s0 platforms.
.LP
The root directory may also be specified with the \fC$INFOPATH\fR  environment
variable. This is a colon (\fC:\fR) or semi-colon  (\fC;\fR) separated list of
directory paths which specify the locations of the info files, for \s-1UNIX\s0
and Microsoft \s-1DOS\s0/Windows environment's, respectively.
.PP
\fBinfo-on\fR gets info on a user specified top level topic, e.g. "\fCgcc\fR",
the info file  "\fItopic-str\fR\fC.info\fR"  must be found in the info  search
path.
.PP
\fBinfo-goto-link\fR  gets  and  displays  info  on a user  specified  link or
subject.  The  link  may  be  within  the  currently   displayed   topic  (the
\fIlink-str\fR  need only  specify the subject node name) or a subject  within
another  topic (in which  case the  \fIlink-str\fR  takes the  following  form
"\fC(\fR\fItopic\fR\fC)\fR \fIsubject\fR").
.SH NOTES
\fBinfo\fR is a macro implemented in file \fCinfo.emf\fR.
.PP
When an \fBinfo\fR  command is run for the first time, the info search path is
constructed and stored locally in the command variable  \fB.info.path\fR. This
variable  must be  directly  changed by the user if changes to the info search
path are required.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht info 9 .
.ad
.FH
