.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac047.3,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|scuts
.ds C0 "(\fB\*e\*(eS\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH expand-abbrev-handle 3
.XI expand-abbrev-handle \- "\*(C0Expand an abbreviation handler"
.SH NAME
expand-abbrev-handle \- Expand an abbreviation handler
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBexpand-abbrev-handle\fR \*(C0
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B expand-abbrev-handle
pulls  together all forms of  abbreviation  expansion into a single command so
that  it  can  be  bound  to  a  single  key.  The  abbreviation  must  be  an
alpha-numeric  string and the cursor must be one  position to the right of the
abbreviation  (which must not be  alpha-numeric)  when this command is called.
The command attempts to expand the abbreviation  using the following  commands
in turn:
.PP
.Ht expand-abbrev 2
.IP
Uses a buffer specific and global  abbreviation  files, if set, to look up the
abbreviation.
.PP
.Ht iso-accents-expand 3
.IP
Expands ISO accent letter if the expansion mode is enabled.
.PP
\fBBuffer specific expansion\fR
.IP
Executes a buffer specific abbreviation expansion if the current buffer's
.Hl "file hook" fileHooks 2
supports abbreviation expansion.
.PP
\fBWord expansion\fR
.IP
If the current  buffer does not support file type  specific  expansion and the
variable  \fB.spell-complete-word.on\fR  is set to \fC1\fR the abbreviation is
assumed to be the start of a word and completed  against the dictionary of the
user's current language.   
.PP
The command exits after first command to successfully expand or if none expand
the command fails. See the help in the individual  expansion commands for more
help.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht expand-abbrev 2 ,
.Ht iso-accents-expand 3 .
.ad
.rm C0
.FH
