.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac046.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 18:16:21 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac046.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell
.so me.tni
.TH gdb 3
.XI gdb - "GNU Debugger"
.XI dbx - "UNIX Debugger"
.SH NAME
.Me "|gdb"
gdb \- GNU Debugger
.br
.Me "|dbx"
dbx \- UNIX Debugger
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B gdb
.br
.B dbx
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgdb\fR  and  \fBdbx\fR  provide an editor  interface  to the GNU and native
system debuggers,  respectively. On running either command then an interactive
shell  window is opened to the  debugger  command line  interface.  \*(mE then
interprets  the  information  from the debugger  interface and opens files and
hilights the current line as required.  The current line is  maintained  while
single stepping though the code.
.PP
Buffers opened and referenced by the debugger have the key \fCF9\fR  bound to
setting a break point.
.SH NOTES
\fBgdb\fR and \fBdbx\fR are macros defined in file \fChkipipe.emf\fR.
.SH BUGS
No macro command  interface has been provided to enable a remote process to be
debugged.  If this is required  the changes to  \fChkipipe.emf\fR  are minimal
requiring  that the macro  prompts  for the process  identity  and invokes the
debugger with the appropriate process arguments.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht ipipe-shell-command 2 .
.ad
.FH
