.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Jul 5 18:16:21 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac085.3,v 2.2 2009-08-29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs shell|command
.so me.tni
.TH ClearCase 3
.XI ClearCase - "\*(mS ClearCase interface"
.XI cc-setup - "\*(mS ClearCase interface setup"
.XI cc-add - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - add file"
.XI cc-checkout - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - checkout files"
.XI cc-checkin - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - checkin files"
.XI cc-delete - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - delete files"
.XI cc-diff - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - diff changes"
.XI cc-state - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - list state of directory files"
.XI cc-update - "\*(mS ClearCase interface - update directory files"
.SH NAME
.Me "|ClearCase"
ClearCase \- \*(mS ClearCase interface
.br
.Me "|cc-add"
cc-add \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - add file
.br
.Me "|cc-checkout"
cc-checkout \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - checkout files and directories
.br
.Me "|cc-checkin"
cc-checkin \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - checkin changes
.br
.Me "|cc-delete"
cc-delete \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - delete file
.br
.Me "|cc-diff"
cc-diff \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - diff changes
.br
.Me "|cc-state"
cc-state \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - list state of directory files
.br
.Me "|cc-update"
cc-update \- \*(mS ClearCase interface - update directory files
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B ClearCase
.br
.B cc-setup
.sp 1
.B cc-add
.br
.B cc-checkout
.br
.B cc-checkin
.br
.B cc-delete
.br
.B cc-diff
.br
.B cc-state
.br
.B cc-update
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  ClearCase  and  sub-commands  provide  \*(mS  with  an  interface  to 
.B "IBM Rational Software"
.Hr ClearCase 1 .
\fBClearCase\fR is a version control system; using it, you can record the history of
your source file  modifications.  ClearCase is licensed from IBM Rational
and is  widely used in a commercial environment,  see  the  documentation
provided with ClearCase for more information on its features and use.
.PP
The \fBClearCase\fR directory should be defined to \*(mS using 
.Ht cc-setup 3 
which enables extensions in the 
.Ht file-browser 3
with an additional  "\fC*cc-console*\fR"  window. The "\fC*files*\fR"  window
includes  additional  columns  showing the ClearCase state,  revision and repository
date. The  functionality  of the  file-browser is the same as a non-ClearCase folder
with the exception that  additional ClearCase item controls are located in the mouse
context  menu (opened by clicking the right mouse button in the  \fC*files*\fR
buffer).  This  menu  item  opens  another  sub-menu  providing  access to the
items below. When selecting  commands than a pop-up check-box may be displayed
which allows options to be selected for the command.
.IP "\fBCurrent State\fR"
Checks the state of  selected  file(s) or  directory  against the  repository.
Differences detected are shown in the \fC*cc-state*\fR  window. This provides
a  quick   method  of   determining   the   working   directory   state.
.IP
The \fC*cc-state*\fR buffer supports some of the same features as a directory
listing, the files can be loaded (using \fCreturn\fR or left click on the file
name),  selected  (using space or left mouse button on the left hand edge) and
ClearCase commands  executed from the window operate either on the selected files or
the listed files if no files are selected. 
.IP "\fBUpdate Elements\fR"
Updates the currently  selected files, files are selected by clicking the left
button to the left of the required file name.  Multiple  files may be selected
by 'dragging' a hilight region over the required  files. 
.IP "\fBClear CC console\fR"
Clears the \fI*cc-console*\fR buffer.
.PP
The  following  sections  describe  some of the  ClearCase  commands  that are
available, a full list of commands may be found using 
.Ht command-apropos 2 
searching  for  \fBcc\fR  which  provides a full list of all of the  ClearCase
related commands. 
.PP
The  \fBcc-add\fR  command adds the current  buffer file to the  repository.
.PP
The  \fBcc-checkout\fR  command  checks  out a  file  or  directory  from  the
repository  into the current  directory,  the read-only  status of the file is
changed to  read-write,  the user is prompted for a comment which will be used
on a subsequent check-in operation. The user specifies the file on the message
line.
.PP
The  \fBcc-checkin\fR  command  commits  any  changes  made  to the  currently
buffer's file  (including  additions) to the  repository. The user is prompted
for a commit log message, the file state will change to read-only.
.PP
The  \fBcc-diff\fR  command opens a  \fI*cc-diff*\fR  window  displaying the
differences between the current buffer's local file and repository version. If
the current buffer is a directory list it will list all the differences  found
in all files within the directory.
.PP
The  \fBcc-delete\fR  command  removes  the  current  buffer's  file from the
repository.
.PP
The \fBcc-state\fR  command opens a \fI*cc-state*\fR  window listing the state
of any file in the current directory which is not up-to-date. Note that unlike
most  ClearCase  sub  commands  this  command  executes  over all files in the
current buffer's file directory.
.PP
The  \fBcc-update\fR  command updates all files in the current directory, the
output  being  reported to a new  \fI*cc-update*\fR  window. Note that unlike
most ClearCase sub  commands  this  command  executes  over all files in the current
buffer's file directory.
.SS Setup
.B cc-setup
provides  a  dialog   interface   to   configure   the  \*(mS  ClearCase   interface
if required. The VOB view location in the file system should be added for each
view that is to be access by \*(mS. 
.PP
A \fBTools\fR tab exists to configure each of the 
.Hr cleartool 1 
options, these may be configured to suite the users preferences.
.PP
.B cc-setup
may also be accessed from 
.Ht user-setup 3 
from  the  \fBMiscellaneous\fR  configuration.  
.SS "ClearCase File Browser"
The \fBClearCase File Browser\fR is an extension to the 
.Ht file-browser 3 
and shows the state of ClearCase files in a directory listing.
.SH NOTES
\fBClearCase\fR and sub-commands are macros defined in file \fCclearcs.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht cvs 3 ,
.Ht file-browser 3 .
.ad
.FH
