.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m3mac040.3,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:10:25 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH find-zfile 3
.XI find-zfile - "Compressed file support"
.XI zfile-setup - "Compressed file support setup"
.SH NAME
.Me "|find-zfile"
find-zfile \- Compressed file support
.br
.Me "|auto-spell-reset"
zfile-setup \- Compressed file support setup
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBfind-zfile\fR "\fIfile-name\fR"
.br
\fBzfile-setup\fR "\fIextension\fR" "\fIlist-command\fR" "\fIcut-to\fR"
.br
.RS
"\fIcolumn\fR" "\fIfile-end\fR" "\fIextract-command\fR"
.br
"\fIremove-command\fR"
.RE
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfind-zfile\fR  provides  generic  support  for listing and  extracting  the
contents of  compressed  files.  \fBfind-zfile\fR also supports the extraction
of the internal files into another buffer.
.PP
\fBfind-zfile\fR   must  be  configured  for  each  compression  format  using
\fBzfile-setup\fR.  It relies on  command-line  programs  to generate  content
lists which are used to generate the main file listing, and  subsequently, the
ability to extract individual files for file extraction support.
.PP
For basic  content  listing  support  the first 3  arguments  must be given to
zfile-setup.  The first argument  "\fIextension\fR"  is used as the compressed
file id string. The compressed  file type is derived from the file  extension,
e.g. "\fCzip\fR" or "\fCZ\fR" for UNIX compressed files. The exact case of the
extension is checked first, followed by the lower case and upper case string.
.PP
The  compressed  file  contents  list is  generated  from  executing  the user
supplied "\fIlist-command\fR" and dumping the output into the list buffer. The
command  is run from the  directory  containing  the  compressed  file and the
following special tags may be used within the  "\fIlist-command\fR"  which get
substituted as follows:-
.IP \fB%zb\fR
The token is replaced with the compressed  files base name, i.e. the file name
without the path.
.IP \fB%zf\fR
The token is replaced with the  compressed  files absolute file name, i.e. the
file complete with the path.
.PP
The head of the list output is often  unwanted  verbose  printout, this can be
automatically  be  removed  by the  use of the  "\fIcut-to\fR"  argument.  The
argument,  if supplied  (not an empty  string),  must be a
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2
search  string  matching  the start of the  required  list. If found, all text
before it is removed.
.PP
For single file  extraction  support the last 4 arguments must be specified by
\fBzfile-setup\fR.  The file to extract is selected  either by  selecting  the
file name  using the left  mouse  button or by moving  the  cursor to the line
containing the file name and pressing the "\fCreturn\fR" key.
.PP
\fBfind-zfile\fR  assumes that the file name starts at a fixed column  number,
specified  with  the  "\fIcolumn\fR"  argument.  The end of the  file  name is
obtained by searching for the regular expression  "\fIfile-end\fR" string, the
file name is assumed to end at the start of the search string match.
.PP
The file is then  extracted by executing the supplied  "\fIextract-command\fR"
and then loading the extracted file into a new buffer. The command is run from
the system temporary  directory (i.e.  "\fC/tmp/\fR" on UNIX or \fC$TEMP\fR on
Windows   etc.).  The   following   special   tags  may  be  used  within  the
"\fIextract-command\fR" which get substituted as follows:-
.IP \fB%zb\fR
The token is replaced with the compressed  files base name, i.e. the file name
without the path.
.IP \fB%zf\fR
The token is replaced with the  compressed  files absolute file name, i.e. the
file name complete with the path.
.IP \fB%fb\fR
The name of the file to be extracted.
.PP
The file is assumed to be  extracted to the temp  directory due to the way the
command is run, this file is then loaded into a new buffer. The temporary file
should then be removed using the supplied  "\fIremove-command\fR"  with is run
from  the  temp  directory,   the  "\fB%fb\fR"  special  tag may be used in the
command. This argument may be given as an empty string, thereby  disabling the
removal.
.SH EXAMPLE
For zip file support the freely available
.Hr unzip 1
command can be used, following is the list of arguments with suitable entries:
.CS
extension           zip
list-command        unzip -v %zb
cut-to              ^ Length
column              58
file-end            $
extract-command     unzip -o %zf %fb
remove-command      rm %fb
.CE
For the zip file "\fI/usr/jasspa/memacros.zip\fR", after substitution the list
command becomes  "\fCunzip -v  memacros.zip\fR"  which will be executed in the
"\fI/usr/jasspa/\fR"  directory.  This  will  produce  the  following  form of
output:
.CS
Archive:  memacros.zip
 Length  Method   Size  Ratio   Date    Time   CRC-32     Name
 ------  ------   ----  -----   ----    ----   ------     ----
    565  Defl:N     258  54%  02-27-99  22:56  018a7f70   american.emf
   3409  Defl:N     872  74%  02-28-99  01:37  6a6f9722   americar.emf
   4201  Defl:N     772  82%  03-01-99  12:58  d4e3bc4a   benchmrk.emf
    565  Defl:N     258  54%  02-27-99  22:56  dd394e24   british.emf
   3408  Defl:N     872  74%  02-28-99  01:37  32f3eeca   britishr.emf
   7239  Defl:N    1923  73%  02-28-99  15:13  d408f0da   calc.emf
   7292  Defl:N    2072  72%  01-23-99  12:49  5979d6b2   cbox.emf
   7104  Defl:N    1402  80%  02-28-99  15:13  6faf4fc5   cmacros.emf
   5967  Defl:N    1239  79%  02-13-99  16:38  27601523   ctags.emf
   1097  Defl:N     489  55%  02-16-99  10:58  53a55e36   dos.emf
    562  Defl:N     310  45%  01-16-98  07:54  ec24f65e   dos2unix.emf
\&\.
\&\.
\&\.
.CE
The top Archive line is not require, this is automatically  removed by setting
the  "\fIcut-to\fR"  to "\fC^  Length\fR"  which matches the start of the next
line.
.PP
For file extract,  consider the file  "\fCctags.emf\fR",  the first  character
\'\fCc\fR' is at column 58 and the first  character  after the end of the file
name is the end-of-line character ('\fC\\n\fR')  which is matched by the
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2
string "$", hence the settings on "\fIcolumn\fR"  and  "\fIfile-end\fR".  When
this  and the zip  file  name are  substituted  into the  extract-command,  it
becomes "\fCunzip -o /usr/jasspa/memacros.zip calc.emf\fR" and is run from the
"\fI/tmp.\fR"   directory.  Note  that  the  "\fC-o\fR"  option  disables  any
overwrite prompts, these are not required as tests and prompting have already
been performed by \fBfind-zfile\fR.  The extracted file  "\fI/tmp/calc.emf\fR"
is then loaded into a new buffer.
.PP
The  temporary  file is removed by executing  the  substituted  remove-command
which becomes "\fCrm calc.emf\fR" from the "\fC/tmp/\fR" directory.
.PP
For gzipped tar files,  extension  "\fBtgz\fR" the following setup can be used
on UNIX platforms:
.CS
extension           tgz
list-command        unzip -v %zb
cut-to
column              43
file-end            $
extract-command     gunzip -c %zf | tar xof - %fb
remove-command      rm %fb
.CE
For the tgz  file  "\fI/usr/jasspa/memacros.tgz\fR",  this  will  produce  the
following listing:
.CS
tgz file: /usr/jasspa/memacros.tgz


rw-rw-r-- 211/200    565 Feb 27 22:56 1999 american.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   3409 Feb 28 01:37 1999 americar.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   4201 Mar  1 12:58 1999 benchmrk.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200    565 Feb 27 22:56 1999 british.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   3408 Feb 28 01:37 1999 britishr.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   7239 Feb 28 15:13 1999 calc.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   7292 Jan 23 12:49 1999 cbox.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   7104 Feb 28 15:13 1999 cmacros.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   5967 Feb 13 16:38 1999 ctags.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200   1097 Feb 16 10:58 1999 dos.emf
rw-rw-r-- 211/200    562 Jan 16 07:54 1998 dos2unix.emf
\&\.
\&\.
\&\.
.CE 0
.SH NOTES
\fBfind-zfile\fR and \fBzfile-setup\fR are
macros defined in \fCzfile.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-file 2 .
.ad
.FH
