.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac073.3,v 2.2 2009-08-29 17:13:59 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|hide
.ds C0 "(\fB\*c\*(f2\fR)\ \&
.ds C1 "(\fB\*c\*(f2\fR)\ \&
.ds C2 "(\fB\*(f3\fR)\ \&
.ds C3 "(\fB\*e\*(f3\fR)\ \&
.ds C4 "(\fB\*e\*c\*(f3\fR)\ \&
.ds C5 "(\fB\*(cX\*ck\fR)\ \&
.ds C6 "(\fB\*(f2\fR)\ \&
.ds C7 "(\fB\*e\*c\*(f3\fR)\ \&
.so me.tni
.TH fold-create 3
.XI fold-create - "\*(C1Create a new fold"
.XI fold-close - "\*(C0Close an open fold (in-line)"
.XI fold-enter - "\*(C2Enter fold"
.XI fold-exit - "\*(C3Exit a fold"
.XI fold-exit-all - "\*(C4Exit all folds"
.XI fold-kill - "\*(C5Delete the fold and all its contents" command|fold|delete
.XI fold-open - "\*(C6Open fold (in-line)"
.XI fold-remove - "\*(C7Remove the fold, maintaining content"
.SH NAME
.Me "|fold-create"
fold-create \- Create a new fold \*(C1
.br
.Me "|fold-close"
fold-close \- Close an open fold (in-line) \*(C0
.br
.Me "|fold-enter"
fold-enter \- Enter fold \*(C2
.br
.Me "|fold-exit"
fold-exit \- Exit a fold \*(C3
.br
.Me "|fold-exit-all"
fold-exit-all \- Exit all folds \*(C4
.br
.Me "|fold-kill"
fold-kill \- Delete the fold and all its contents \*(C5
.br
.Me "|fold-open"
fold-open \- Open fold (in-line) \*(C6
.br
.Me "|fold-remove"
fold-remove \- Remove the fold, maintaining content \*(C7
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fBfold-create\fR \*(C1
.br
\fBfold-close\fR \*(C0
.br
\fBfold-enter\fR \*(C2
.br
\fBfold-exit\fR \*(C3
.br
\fBfold-exit-all\fR \*(C4
.br
\fBfold-kill\fR \*(C5
.br
\fBfold-open\fR \*(C6
.br
\fBfold-remove\fR \*(C7
.ad
.SH INTRODUCTION
\*(mS  supports  folding  editor type features that allow folds to be created,
deleted  and  traversed.  Folded regions of the file may be entered and edited
whilst  hiding  information  in other folds. Folds may also be opened  in-line
such that more than one fold is visible at any time.
.PP
The \fBfold\fR operation has different semantics than
.Hl collapse collapse-current 3
which  simply  hides  information  with a single  narrow and does not  provide
features such as entering the fold.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fold-create
creates a new fold from the text defined between the cursor and the
.Hl set-mark set-mark 2
position.  The text  between the mark line and the cursor line  inclusive  are
then folded and fold markers are inserted into the buffer. The folded line may
be commented with a fold comment. The fold may be subsequently removed with
.B fold-remove
which removes the fold under the cursor, deleting any fold annotations.
.PP
.B fold-open
opens the fold under the  cursor, the fold is  expanded  in line such that the
contents of the fold are visible. The fold may be subsequently closed using
.B fold-close
when the body of the text is hidden underneath a fold marker.
.PP
.B fold-enter
enters a fold under the cursor and the  contents  of the fold are  reveled the
rest of the buffer is narrowed  out. The  previous  fold level may be restored
with
.BR fold-exit .
Where the fold nesting is deep then
.B fold-exit-all
may be used to return to the top level.
.PP
.B fold-kill
deletes the fold under the cursor and all of the information  contained within
the fold.
.Ht undo 2
will restore the fold if this was not the required action.
.SH DEFINITION
Any file may be folded  provided that the opening and closing fold strings are
defined. Folding may be defined and initialized for a file type using
.Ht buffer-init 3
by defining the
\fBfhopok-XXX.fold\fR variable to define the opening and closing fold markers.
i.e.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable .fhook-XXX.fold "<open> <close>"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Where \fI<open>\fR and \fI<close>\fR are the opening and closing fold strings.
.PP
Folding may also be introduced on a file basis by defining the sold markers
in the magic string by  assignment of the open and close fold strings  through
the  variables   \fBfold-open:\fR  and   \fBfold-close:\fR.   The  macro  file
\fCfold.emf\fR does this to fold a \*(mS macro file as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; -!- emf: fold-open: ";OPEN" ; fold-close: ";CLOSE" ; -!-

;OPEN fold-idle
0 define-macro fold-idle
    !if &lfind "|yank|reyank|" @cl
        fold-region
        2 screen-update
    !endif
    !if &exi :fold-idle
        execute-line :fold-idle
    !endif
!emacro
;CLOSE
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $line-flags 5 ,
.Ht buffer-init 3 ,
.Ht collapse-all 3 ,
.Ht collapse-current 3 ,
.Ht narrow 2m ,
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 ,
.Ht set-mark 2 .
.ad
.rm C0
.rm C1
.rm C2
.rm C3
.rm C4
.rm C5
.rm C6
.rm C7
.FH
