.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac076.3,v 1.1 2005-02-13 19:31:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|region|file
.so me.tni
.TH write-region 3
.XI write-region - "Write contents of region to named (new) file"
.SH NAME
write-region \- Write contents of region to named (new) file
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B write-region
"\fIfile-name\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B write-region
is used to write the contents of a selected region of a buffer to a \s-1NEW\s0
file i.e. where the region exists between \fIpoint\fB and \fImark\fR.
.PP
.B write-buffer
writes the contents of the current  region to the named file  \fIfile-name\fR.
The action of the write also changes the file name associated with the current
buffer to the new file name.
.PP
On writing the region, if
.Ht time 2m
mode is enabled then the
.Hl "time stamp string" $timestamp 5
is  searched  for  in the  file  and  modified  if  located,  to  reflect  the
modification date and time.
.PP
If the region contains a
.Ht narrow 2m
it will automatically  be removed  before  saving so that the whole  region is
saved and restored when saving is complete.
.PP
The  argument  \fIn\fR  may  be  used  to  change  the  default  behavior  of
write-region described above, \fIn\fR is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Enables  validity  checks  (default).  These include a check that the proposed
file does not already exist, if so  confirmation  of writing is requested from
the user.  Also  \*(mE  checks  all  other  current  buffers  for one with the
proposed file name, if found, again  confirmation  is requested.  Without this
flag the command will always succeed wherever possible.
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Disables the expansion of any narrows (see
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 )
before saving the buffer.
.SH NOTES
.Ht undo 2
information may be discarded when the file is written.
.PP
\fBwrite-region\fR  is a macro defined in \fCmisc.emf\fR,  this macro was used
as an example for
.Hl "Writing MicroEmacs Macros" macroWriting 4 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht append-buffer 2 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 .
.br
.Hl "Writing MicroEmacs Macros" macroWriting 4 .
.ad
.FH
