.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac061.3,v 1.2 2005-01-01 15:02:12 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs cursor
.so me.tni
.TH display-matching-fence 3
.XI display-matching-fence - "Display the matching bracket"
.SH NAME
display-matching-fence \- Display the matching bracket
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B display-matching-fence
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdisplay-matching-fence\fR  draws the fence (or bracket) pairing the one the
cursor is currently over. A fence is considered to be one of the following:
.CS
{...}   (...)   [...]
.CE
If the  matching  fence is  currently  being  drawn (i.e. it is visible)  both
fences are drawn in the '\fINormal\fR' Matching Fence scheme (see
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ).
If the matching fence is not currently visible the cursor is temporarily moved
to the matching fence for
.Ht $pause-time 5
milliseconds  before  returning  to the  starting  position,  the  fences  are
hilighted using the Matching Fence 'Current'  scheme. The matching fence delay
can be  interrupted  by pressing  any key. If the fence  cannot be matched the
fence is  hilighted  using the  'Select'  scheme  which is  usually a bold red
color.
.PP
The numeric  argument  \fBn\fR  passed to the command is a bitwise  flag where
each bit is defined as follows:
.IP \fB0x01\fR
Display fence (if not set nothing is done).
.IP \fB0x02\fR
Use  set-position id '\fC\\x85\fR'  instead of '\fC\\x84\fR' (for internal use).
.IP \fB0x04\fR
Don't Jump when matching fence is off screen.
.IP \fB0x08\fR
Jump when closing a fence and its pair is off screen (for internal use).
.IP \fB0x10\fR
Always jump to matching fence when closing a fence (for internal use).
.IP \fB0x20\fR
Give preference to closing fence to left of cursor rather than character under
the cursor (for internal use).
.SH NOTES
This macro is used by the \fBFence Display\fR setting of
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
the macro is bound to the \fCidle-pick\fR event using some of the more obscure
numeric argument flags.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht goto-matching-fence 2 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht $pause-time 5 .
.ad
.FH
