.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac017.3,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:13:42 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command
.so me.tni
.TH c-hash-eval 3
.XI c-hash-eval - "Evaluate C/C++ #defines"
.XI c-hash-del - "Remove C/C++ #define evaluation"
.XI c-hash-set-define - "Set a C/C++ #define"
.XI c-hash-unset-define - "Unset a C/C++ #define"
.SH NAME
.Me "|c-hash-eval"
c-hash-eval \- Evaluate C/C++ #defines
.br
.Me "|c-hash-del"
c-hash-del \- Remove C/C++ #define evaluation
.br
.Me "|c-hash-set-define"
c-hash-set-define \- Set a C/C++ #define
.br
.Me "|c-hash-unset-define"
c-hash-unset-define \- Unset a C/C++ #define
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
\fBc-hash-eval\fR
.br
\fBc-hash-del\fR
.br
\fBc-hash-set-define\fR
"\fIvariable\fR" "\fIvalue\fR"
.br
\fBc-hash-unset-define\fR
"\fIvariable\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBc-hash-eval\fR evaluates C/C++ '#' lines, hiding sections of code which have
been 'hashed' out. \fBc-hash-eval\fR evaluates the following '#' lines:-
.IP
.nf
#define <variable> ....
#ifdef <variable>
#if ...
#else
#endif
.fi
.PP
For    \fC#define\fRs    \fBc-hash-eval\fR    creates    a   user    variable
"\fC%cd<variable>\fR",  setting  it to the value  found.  For  \fC#ifdef\fR  a
simple check for the existence of variable  "\fC%cd<variable>\fR"  is made. If
defined  then code  between  the  \fC#ifdef\fR  and  either its  matching
\fC#else\fR or  \fC#endif\fR is displayed and code between the \fC#else\fR and
\fC#endif\fR is hidden. If it is not defined then the reverse happens.
.PP
The state of \fC#if\fR's are evaluated using
.Ht calc 3 ,
the following code is then displayed as for \fC#ifdef\fR.
.PP
Code is hidden by setting the
.Ht $line-scheme 5
to a color similar to the  back-ground. If an argument is given to the command
the code is also narrowed out using
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 .
.PP
\fBc-hash-del\fR  undoes the effect of  \fBc-hash-eval\fR  by  restores  hidden
code.
.PP
\fBc-hash-set-define\fR and  \fBc-hash-unset-define\fR can be used to manually
set and unset \fC#define\fR variables. 
.SH NOTES
\fBc-hash-eval\fR,      \fBc-hash-del\fR,      \fBc-hash-set-define\fR     and
\fBc-hash-unset-define\fR are macros defined in \fCcmacros.emf\fR.
.PP
Executing  \fBc-hash-eval\fR  in a project header file (h file) which contains
all used  \fC#define\fR  definitions will set up all  \fC#define\fR  variables
ready for the main C files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht calc 3 ,
.Ht $line-scheme 5 ,
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 .
.ad
.FH
