.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"  			   Copyright 1999 Jasspa .
.\"			    All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        : MicroEmacs
.\"  Module        : 
.\"  Object Name   : m3mac036.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Wed Jan 20 21:57:53 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description	
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"	
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Jasspa.
.\" 
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied, 
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Jasspa.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3mac036.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:01 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|search|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH regex-forward 3
.XI regex-forward - "Search for a magic string in the forward direction"
.XI regex-backward - "Search for a magic string in the backward direction"
.SH NAME
.Me "|regex-forward"
regex-forward \- Search for a magic string in the forward direction
.br
.Me "|regex-backward"
regex-backward \- Search for a magic string in the backward direction
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.I n
.B regex-forward
"\fIstring\fR"
.br
.I n
.B regex-backward
"\fIstring\fR"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B regex-forward
searches for a regular expression string from the current cursor position to
the end of the file. A case insensitive regular expression search is performed
regardless of the 
.Ht magic 2m
and
.Ht exact 2m
mode settings. 
.PP
The numeric argument
.I n
is interpreted as follows:-
.IP "\fBn > 0\fR"
The \fIn\fRth occurrence of the \fIstring\fR is located.
.IP "\fBn < 0\fR"
The first occurrence of the \fIstring\fR is located in the next \fIn\fR lines.
.PP
.B regex-backward
searches  backwards in  the file.  In all  other ways  it is like
.BR regex-forward .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The command returns a status of \fCFALSE\fR if the  \fIstring\fR  could not be
located (or \fIn\fRth  \fIstring\fR where \fIn\fR  occurrences are requested).
If the  \fIstring\fR  is found  within the given  search  criteria  the return
status is \fCTRUE\fR.
.SH NOTES 
The 
.B regex-forward
and
.B regex-backward
commands are not  publically  available from the command line, but may be used
within macros to perform regular  expression  searches  regardless of the user
mode settings.
.PP
These commands are implemented as macros in \fCutils.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2  ,
.Ht exact 2m ,
.Ht isearch-forward 2 ,
.Ht magic 2m ,
.Ht replace-string 2 ,
.Ht search-backward 2 ,
.Ht search-forward 2 .
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.FH
