.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd008.3,v 2.7 2009-10-03 16:35:40 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|file
.so me.tni
.TH file-attrib 3
.XI file-attrib - "Set the current buffers system file attributes"
.SH NAME
file-attrib \- Set the current buffers system file attributes
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B file-attrib
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B file-attrib
opens a dialog  enabling  the user to  change  the  system  properties  of the
current  buffer's file. Top of the dialog give the current buffer name and its
file name. The \fCSave  Changes\fR  button writes the current  buffer out with
any current  edits and changes to its file  attributes.  The  \fCOk\fR  button
closes the file-attrib dialog, any changes made to the file attributes will be
applied next time the buffer is written.
.PP
The type  allow  the  changing  between  UNIX, MS  Windows  and DOS text  file
formats. UNIX has a single new line character  ('\fC\\n\fR')  where as Windows
and Dos have a double  new line  character  ('\fC\\r\\n\fR').  Also a Dos text
file is terminated  with a \fCC-z\fR (0x1A)  character  which the other two do
not. These attribute are set in \*(mS by using buffer modes
.Ht cr 2m ,
.Ht lf 2m
and
.Ht ctrlz 2m .
.PP
The central part of the dialog contains system dependent  attributes which are
defined as follows:
.IP "\fBUNIX Platforms\fR"
Allow  the  setting  of user,  group  and  global,  read,  write  and  execute
permissions, see man pages on
.Hr chmod 1
for more information. This is a front end to setting the variable
.Ht $buffer-fmod 5 .
.IP "\fBWin32  Platforms\fR"
Allow the  setting of MS Windows  file  attributes,  i.e.  read-only,  hidden,
archive etc. Note that the  directory  attribute  is  displayed  but cannot be
altered. This is a front end to setting the variable
.Ht $buffer-fmod 5 .
.IP "\fBDOS  Platform\fR"
Allow the setting of MS Dos file  attributes, i.e. read-only,  hidden, archive
etc. Note that the directory attribute is displayed but cannot be altered.
.SH NOTES
\fBfile-attrib\fR is a macro implemented in \fCfattrib.emf\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht write-buffer 2 ,
.Ht cr 2m ,
.Ht lf 2m ,
.Ht ctrlz 2m ,
.Ht $buffer-fmod 5 .
.ad
.FH
