.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3osd005.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Feb 1 20:28:17 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd005.3,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:02 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH scheme-editor 3
.XI scheme-editor - "Color Scheme Editor"
.SH NAME
scheme-editor \- Color Scheme Editor
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B scheme-editor
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBscheme-editor\fR  is a color scheme editor that provides a dialog interface
to configure  the color  schemes used by the editor. The color  schemes may be
created  or  modified  within  the  scheme  editor and then  committed  to the
configuration files for general use.
.PP
The color schemes are typically  stored in the \fCmacros\fR  directory and are
executed  as  macro  files  at  start  up. The  standard  schemes  are  called
\fBscheme\fR\|\fIX\fR\|\fB.emf\fR.
.PP
The   \fBscheme-editor\fR  is  displayed  within  a  single  dialog  box,  tab
selections at the top of the dialog box enable  \fBcolor\fR  and  \fBscheme\fR
creation  and/or  modification.  Navigation is typically  performed  using the
mouse,  where the mouse is absent then the  \fCTAB\fR  key may be used to move
between the fields. The information presented is defined as follows:-
.IP "\fBFile Name\fR"
The  name  of the  color  scheme  to be  modified.  This  is the  name  of the
\fBscheme\fR\|\fIX\fR\|\fB.emf\fR  file,  omitting  the  file  extension.  The
standard color schemes supplied with \*(mE are:-
.RS
.BS
\fCschemed\fR \- Default white on black.
.BU
\fCschemej\fR \- Black on cream.
.BU
\fCschemevi\fR \- GVim default color scheme
.BU
\fCschemepd\fR \- Plain Black on Cream
.BU
\fCschemepl\fR \- Plain White on Black
.BU
\fCschemel\fR \- Black on grey.
.BU
\fCschememd\fR \- Microsoft Developer Studio Colors.
.BE 0
.RE
.IP "\fBDescription\fR"
An ASCII description of the color scheme, used to identify the color scheme.
.IP "\fBBuffer Hilight\fR"
Defines whether buffer hilighting should be enabled, when
\fICompletely  Disable\fR all buffers are displayed character for character in
the standard text scheme, this will ensure maximum update performance but some
file formats such as the on-line help will become unreadable so this option is
really  selected.  Similarly  \fIReformat  Only\fR  disables  the  majority of
buffers,  hilighting is only enabled when the file would be unreadable without
it, such as the on-line help or man page files. The default
\fIFully Enabled\fR setting enables all buffer hilighting.
.SS Colors
The  \fBcolors\fR  tab  allows  the basic  palette  colors of the editor to be
created and modified. The  left-hand  side of the dialog  contains a scrolling
window  containing  the existing  color  entries. The  right-hand  side of the
dialog  provides  the  controls  to add and change the color  assignment.  The
controls operate on the currently selected palette entry.
.IP \fBAdd\fR
Creates and adds a new color entry into the palette. The new palette  entry is
created with a default color that may be subsequently modified.
.IP \fBChange\fR
Commits the current selection color to the palette.
.IP "\fBRed\fR/\fBGreen\fR/\fBBlue\fR"
The color  entries  allow the  currently  selected  palette  color entry to be
modified. The color values may be changed by direct  numeric entry (0..255) or
via the ^/v  controls;  the  color is  committed  to the  pallette  using  the
\fBAdd\fR or \fBChange\fR button.
.SS Schemes
The  \fBschemes\fR  tab allows the color  schemes to be edited. The  left-hand
side of the dialog contains a scrolling  window of the available color palette
(created from the  \fBColors\fR  tab). The right-hand side of the window shows
the variants of the color scheme.
.IP "\fBSelection\fR"
The  \fBselection\fR  item provides a pull-down  menu  containing  gross color
scheme categories used by the editor.
.IP \fBScheme\fR
A pull-down menu containing the color schemes of the selection, modifying this
entry  shows the  variants of the scheme in the  \fBNormal\fR,  \fBCurrent\fR,
\fBSelect\fR and \fBSel-Cur\fR dialogs.
.LP
There are 4 variants of a single color  scheme; each variant is comprised of a
foreground  and  background  color,  additionally a  \fITermcap\fR  hilighting
classification may be assigned to the variant, which is used in the absence of
(or in  addition  to) color. The variant of color  displayed  by a  particular
scheme depends upon the selection/current status of the text.
.IP \fBNormal\fR
The normal color, when the text object is not selected or current (i.e. out of
focus).
.IP \fBCurrent\fR
The scheme color when the text object is current (i.e. in focus)
.IP \fBSelect\fR
The scheme  color when the text object is selected  (i.e. by the mouse) and is
not current.
.IP \fBSel-Cur\fR
The scheme color when the text object is selected and is current.
.LP
The \fITermcap\fR  hilighting assignments are indicated by the alphabetic mode
selection \fCBILRUV\fR, which are interpreted as follows:-
.IP
\fCB\fR \- Bold.
.br
\fCI\fR \- Italic (typically displayed as underline).
.br
\fCL\fR \- Light (typically not supported).
.br
\fCR\fR \- Reverse video (fore/back-ground swapped).
.br
\fCU\fR \- Underline.
.br
\fCV\fR \- Toggle reverse video when inverted.
.LP
None, one or more of the \fITermcap\fR modes may be applied to a single scheme
variant. The last mode \fBV\fR needs a little more explanation;  commands such
as
.Ht screen-poke 2
are  able to  invert  the  color  scheme,  i.e.  use the  fore  color  for the
background  etc.  Enabling  this  mode will  toggle  the  reverse  video  mode
(\fBR\fR) when this feature is used.
.PP
Setting of the  \fBselection\fR  and \fBscheme\fR  shows the current scheme in
the \fBNormal\fR,  \fBCurrent\fR,  \fBSelect\fR and \fBSel-Cur\fR dialogs. New
colors are  assigned by  selecting a color in the pallette  area and making it
current. The current color is applied by selecting the \fBFore\fR / \fBBack\fR
boxes of the scheme dialog. The assigned color is displayed in the text box
.IR "The big brown ..." .
.SS Controls
The controls at the bottom of the dialog apply the edits to the  configuration
files.
.IP \fBCurrent\fR
Makes the changes to the pallette and schemes current, they are applied to the
current  editing  session  but are not  committed  to file.  This  allows  the
pallette  changes to be used prior to commitment. Note that all  modifications
are lost if they are not saved and the editing session is terminated.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves  the  color  modifications  to  file,  effectively  making  the  changes
permanent.  Note however that the scheme macro file will be saved in the first
directory in the
.Ht $search-path 5 ,
regardless of the location of the original. For network systems this typically
means that the changes will only effect the current user.
.IP \fBInstall\fR
Installs the current  color scheme into the  configuration  files,  making the
color scheme accessible to the
.Ht user-setup 3
dialog.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Quits the scheme editor without modifying the settings.
.SH FILES
\fCschemed.emf\fR \- Default white on black color scheme.
.br
\fCschemej.emf\fR \- Black on cream color scheme.
.br
\fCschemel.emf\fR \- Black on grey color scheme.
.br
\fCschememd.emf\fR \- Microsoft Developer Studio color scheme.
.br
\fCscheme.emf\fR \- Defines the standard color scheme variables and associated
text. The print <=> scheme assignments are made in this file.
.SH NOTES
\fBscheme-editor\fR is a macro that is implemented in file \fCschemosd.emf\fR.
The scheme editor uses
.Ht osd 2
to create and manage the dialogs.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht add-color 2 ,
.Ht add-color-scheme 2 ,
.Ht osd 2 .
.ad
.FH
