.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2004 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Sat Jul 28 10:59:37 2001
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd012.3,v 2.6 2005-01-03 15:44:02 bill Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd|print
.so me.tni
.TH print-setup 3
.XI print-setup - "Configure \*(mS's printer interface"
.SH NAME
print-setup \- Configure \*(mS's printer interface
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B print-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBprint-setup\fR provides a dialog interface for configuring \*(mS's printing
interface.  \fBprint-setup\fR  may be invoked from the main \fIFile\fR menu or
directly from the command line using
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.PP
The \fBprint-setup\fR  dialog is broken down into three pages of configuration
options, on all pages the  following  buttons are  available at the bottom of
the dialog:-
.IP "\fCPrint\fR"
Prints the current buffer using the current configuration.
.IP "\fCExit\fR"
Quits \fBprint-setup\fR, changes made to the configuration will be saved.
.PP
The following pages appear in the dialog:-
.SS Printer
The  \fBPrinter\fR  page is used to configure  the type, style and location of
the printer, the items on this page are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fCDriver\fR"
Sets the printer type to be used, selecting this item creates a drop down list
of  available  printer  drivers.  The drivers  inform  \*(mS which fonts and
colors are available and how to enable/disable them, these are usually special
character sequences. The following special drivers are defined:-
.RS
.IP "Default Plain Text"
This  driver  does not use any special  character  sequences  so the output it
produces  is plain  text. This  should  work with most  printers,  but it does
not support any colors or fonts. 
.IP "HTML"
This is a virtual printer driver as no printer uses HTML directly. However the
files produced by this driver can be loaded by a web-browser and rendered with
full color and font  support so provides an efficient  way of testing  printer
schemes. In addition  may be used to convert the text  rendered in  MicroEmacs
into HTML content.
.IP "Windows"
This utilizes \*(mS's built-in Windows printer  interface  (Windows  platforms
only). When selected \*(mS communicates directly to the MS Printer Manager.
.RE
.IP "\fCPrint Scheme\fR"
Sets the color and font scheme to be used,  selecting this item creates a drop
down  list of  available  printer  schemes - choose  one  appropriated  for your
printer.  The  Default  Plain Text  scheme  does not use any color or fonts so
should  work  for all  drivers.  see the next  item for  scheme  creation  and
editing.
.IP "\fCEdit\fR"
Opens the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
dialog box to edit the currently  selected printer scheme, the editor may also
be used to create and install new printer schemes.
.IP "\fCDestination\fR"
Specifies  the resultant  print output, when selected a drop down menu appears
containing the following items:
.RS
.IP "To buffer only"
Creates a "\fC*printer*\fR" buffer and prints to the buffer.
.IP "To file only"
Creates a new temporary file and prints to it.
.IP "To file & print"
Prints to a temporary file and then executes the command-line  (see next item)
to print the  resultant  file  (option not  available  when using the  Windows
printer driver).
.IP "Direct to printer"
Output is sent directly to the printer,  option only  available when using the
Windows driver.
.RE
.IP "\fCCommand-line\fR"
Sets the  command-line  required to print a generated  print file  (option not
available  when the Windows  driver is selected as printing is done by talking
to MS Print  Manager  directly).  The  command-line  should be a single  shell
command  using  "\fC%f\fR"  whenever  the  name of the file to be  printed  is
required, e.g. on UNIX systems
.Hr lp 1
or
.Hr lpr 1
can usually be used as follows:-
.RS
.CS
lp -s %f
.CE
On MS-DOS  machines  this can  usually be  achieved by copying the file to the
\fCPRN\fR device, as follows:
.CS
copy %f PRN
.CE 0
.RE
.IP "\fCPage Layout\fR"
Displays the current page configuration in the form: 
.RS
.IP
\fIColumns\fR\fBx\fR\fIRows\fR \fIChars-Wide\fR\fBx\fR\fIChars-High\fR
.PP
the field cannot be edited  directly,  the settings  \fBPage  Setup\fR  affect
these values.
.RE
.SS "Page Setup"
.IP "\fCPaper Size\fR"
Sets the size of the  printer  paper,  selecting  this  item  will  produce  a
pop down menu  listing all  available  paper sizes unless the Windows  printer
driver is being  used in which  case this  field  cannot be  selected  and the
\fBEdit\fR button must be used.
.IP "\fCPage Size\fR"
Sets the printable size of the page in terms of the number of characters which
will fit on the paper  (\fIwidth\fR\fBx\fR\fIheight\fR).  When selected a drop
down menu lists all  available  sizes for the  current  paper size  unless the
Windows driver is selected in which case this field cannot be selected and the
\fBEdit\fR button must be used.
.IP "\fCEdit\fR (Windows only)"
Opens a Windows  printer  dialog box  allowing  the user to specify  the  windows
printer, paper size and character size etc.
.IP "\fCNo. of Columns\fR and \fCRows\fR"
Sets the  number of  sub-columns  and rows to divide  the page into,  creating
sub-pages within a page.
.IP "\fCPrint Line Numbers\fR"
When enabled, prints the line number at the left hand edge for each line.
.IP "\fCPrint Split Line IDs\fR"
When  enabled  the  last  right  hand  text  column  is  reserved  for a split
identifier.  Whenever  a line is too long to fit on a single  line it is split
over two or more lines, if this  option is enabled  the right edge will be set
to the split  character  (usually a '\fC\\\fR' char) to clearly  indicate that
the line is split.
.IP "\fCPage Layout\fR"
As with the  \fBPrinter\fR  \fBPage  Layout\fR  it displays  the current  page
configuration, the field cannot be edited. 
.SS "Layout"
.IP "\fCMargins\fR"
Configures the top, bottom, left and right margins in characters.
.IP "\fCPrint Header\fR"
Sets  whether  a header  should be  printed  and if so what it should  be, the
following special strings can be used:
.RS
.IP "\fC%%\fR"
Print a '\fC%\fR' character.
.IP "\fC%b\fR"
Print the current buffer's name.
.IP "\fC%D\fR"
Print the current day of the month.
.IP "\fC%f\fR"
Print the current buffer's file name.
.IP "\fC%h\fR"
Print the current hour.
.IP "\fC%M\fR"
Print the current month of the year.
.IP "\fC%m\fR"
Print the current minute of the hour.
.IP "\fC%p\fR"
Print the current page number.
.IP "\fC%s\fR"
Print the current seconds.
.IP "\fC%Y\fR"
Print the current year as a 2 digit number.
.IP "\fC%y\fR"
Print the current year as a 4 digit number.
.RE
.IP "\fCPrint Footer\fR"
Sets  whether  a footer  should be  printed  and if so what it should  be, the
same special strings can be used as for the header.
.SH NOTES
\fBprint-setup\fR is a macro using
.Ht osd 2 ,
defined in \fCprintstp.emf\fR.
.PP
The list of available printer drivers and print schemes is stored in the macro
file  \fCprinters.emf\fR. To create a new
printer  driver  a  new  configuration  registry  file  (\fCerf\fR  file - see
\fCprint*.erf\fR for examples) must be created and added to the printer driver
lists within \fCprinter.emf\fR.
.PP
The  \fCprinters.emf\fR  file also contains a list of printing  schemes, using
the \fBInstall\fR option of the
.Ht scheme-editor 3
automatically  adds the new scheme to the print  schemes list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht print-buffer 2 ,
.Ht scheme-editor 3 ,
.Ht osd 2 .
.ad
.FH

