.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sun Feb 6 18:14:27 2005
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd014.3,v 2.1 2005-02-06 18:51:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH indent-setup 3
.XI indent-setup - "Locally modify buffer indentation"
.SH NAME
indent-setup \- Locally modify buffer indentation
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B indent-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBindent-setup\fR  provides a dialog  interface  for  configuring  the buffer
indentation. \fBindent-setup\fR may be invoked from the main \fIFormat\fR menu
or directly from the command line using
.Ht execute-named-command 2 .
.PP
The  \fBindent-setup\fR  dialogue  may be  used  to  quickly  reconfigure  the
indentation  attributes of a given buffer. The  indentation  settings are only
temporary  and  expire  once the  buffer  has been  closed or  re-loaded.
.Ht buffer-setup 3
should be used to associate  user  specific  settings  with  different  buffer
types.
.PP
The following controls are available:-
.IP "\fCTab Width\fR"
The width of a rendered \s-1TAB\s0  character in spaces,  modification of this
value  immediately  changes the layout.  This  modifies  the buffer  width tab
variable
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5
the  default  is 8 (defined by
.Ht $tab-width 5 ).
Where files have been edited with a non-standard  tab width then  modification
of this value (to  typically  2 or 4) may correct the  problem. To correct the
styling of the buffer to be editor independent then the command
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3
may be used to change all of the tab  characters  to spaces once the tab width
has been correctly set.
.IP "\fCIndent Width\fR"
Defines  the  indent  width  to use when the  \s-1TAB\s0  key is  pressed,  or
following a nested construct in a auto-indent buffer. This entry modifies the
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5
setting. The default indentation width is defined by the variable
.Ht $indent-width 5 .
.IP "\fCUse Tab Characters\fR"
The user preference for performing indentation with a \s-1TAB\s0 character or
\s-1SPACE\s0 character. This modifies the buffer
.Ht tab 2m
mode setting.
.IP "\fCUse Auto Indentation\fR"
Toggles  automatic  indentation on an off, this setting is only present if the
buffer type supports a
.Ht indent 2 
scheme. Typically used for files such as
.Hl lex l 9
and
.Hl yacc y 9
which use a special syntax combination with C.
.IP "\fCUse Hilighting\fR"
Toggles hilighting on and off, this setting is only present if the buffer type
supports a
.Ht hilight 2
scheme.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-setup 3 ,
.Ht execute-named-command 2 ,
.Ht hilight 2 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht osd 2 ,
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5 ,
.Ht $indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $tab-width 5 .
.ad
.FH
