.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			     Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m3osd001.3
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Mon Feb 1 20:28:17 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd001.3,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd
.so me.tni
.TH organizer 3
.XI organizer - "Calendar and address organizer"
.SH NAME
organizer \- Calendar and address organizer
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B organizer
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBorganizer\fR  is a calendar  and address  organizer,  enabling  notes to be
stored  against the calendar  days;  addresses may be archived into an address
book.
.PP
\fBorganizer\fR uses the \*(mE in-built registry to store information within a
registry  file  called  \fI<username>\fR\fC.eof\fR.   \fBorganizer\fR  may  be
entered directly from the command line, or via the menu (via \fBTools\fR).
.PP
\fBorganizer\fR is displayed within a single osd dialog box, tab selections at
the  top of the  window  enable  the  different  forms  of  information  to be
displayed.  Navigation is typically performed using the mouse, where the mouse
is absent then the  \fCTAB\fR  key may be used to move between the fields. The
information presented is defined as follows:-
.SS Month
Shows the calendar  month, starting with the current month, the current day is
hi-lighted  and  any  notes  that  have  been  entered  are  displayed  in the
\fBNotes\fR entry box at the bottom of the page.
.PP
The default mode of operation is note entries for the current  month,  however
specifying the  \fI<year>\fR  as the wild card '\fB*\fR' (star) enables annual
events to be  entered  into the  organizer.  Annual  events are  automatically
inserted into the calendar each year, typically used for birthdays etc.
.PP
The entry controls to the dialog are defined as follows:-
.IP \fB<-\fR
Advances to the previous month.
.IP \fB->\fR
Advances to the next month.
.IP \fI<Month>\fR
A pull down dialog enabling month selection.
.IP \fI<year>\fR
A text entry field specifying the current year as a 4 digit number. A value of
\fB*\fR is the wild card year for specifying annual events.
.IP \fBNotes\fR
A free form text entry box  allowing a note to be  attached  to the  currently
selected day.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves the entry back to file.
.IP "\fBMonth To Buffer\fR"
Dumps a view of the  month to the  currently  active  buffer,  any  notes  are
also dumped to the buffer.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the \fBorganizer\fR.
.SS "Week"
Shows the calendar week in the current  buffer, the days of the week are shown
in a column  ordering. Note that selection of the week is typically  performed
from the \fBMonth\fR view, moving to the \fBWeek\fR view (via the tab) selects
the week appropriate to the previously selected day within the month view.
.PP
The entry controls on the dialog are defined as follows:-
.IP \fB<-\fR
Advances to the previous week.
.IP \fB->\fR
Advances to the next week.
.IP \fI<year>\fR
A text entry field  specifying the current year as a 4 digit number. The value
of \fB*\fR for viewing and setting annual events is not valid in this view.
.IP \fBNotes\fR
A free form text entry box  allowing a note to be  attached  to the  currently
selected day.
.IP \fI<day>\fR
Selecting a date in the  \fIday\fR  column  changes the view to the  \fBDay\fR
view.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves the entry back to file.
.IP "\fBWeek To Buffer\fR"
Dumps a view of the week to the  currently  active  buffer, any notes are also
dumped to the buffer.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the \fBorganizer\fR.
.LP
\fBNote:\fR  The start day in the week view may be configured to commence on a
day other than Sunday from the \fBSetup\fR tab.
.SS Day
Shows an extended view of the notes attached to the current day, day selection
is typically  performed  from the  \fBMonth\fR or \fBWeek\fR  views. The entry
controls on the dialog are defined as follows:-
.IP \fB<\-\fR
Advances to the previous day.
.IP \fB\->\fR
Advances to the next day.
.IP \fI<year>\fR
A text entry field specifying the current year as a 4 digit number. A value of
\fB*\fR is the wild card year for specifying annual events.
.IP \fI<month>\fR
A pull down dialog enabling month selection.
.IP \fI<day>\fR
A text entry enabling the current day to be entered.
.IP \fBNotes\fR
A free form text entry box  allowing a note to be  attached  to the  currently
selected day.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves the entry back to file.
.IP "\fBDay To Buffer\fR"
Dumps a view of the day to the currently  active buffer, any notes are printed
in the buffer.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the \fBorganizer\fR.
.SS Lists
The lists pane provides support for multiple list generation and manipulation.
Each list  consists  of zero or more  ordered  items  each of which has a text
field in which the user can enter information. 
.PP
Entry to the dialog is defined as follows:-
.IP \fBList\fR
Selects a list.
.IP \fBNew\fR
Creates a new list.
.IP "\fBLines Per Item\fR"
Sets the number of lines to use when displaying a list item.
.IP \fBNew\fR
Creates a new list item at the end of the current list. 
.IP \fBUp\fR
Moves the currently selected item (left click on the item number) up the list.
.IP \fBDown\fR
Moves the currently selected item down the list.
.IP \fBInsert\fR
Inserts a new list item before the currently selected item.
.IP \fBDelete\fR
Deletes the currently selected item.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves the entry back to file.
.IP "\fBList To Buffer\fR"
Dumps a view of the list to the currently  active buffer.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the \fBorganizer\fR.
.SS Address
The address pane  provides  entry to the address book,  enabling  personal and
business  details to be retained  against a single name, tabbed  selection  of
\fBWork\fR or \fBHome\fR  selects the information  that is displayed. A search
engine is provide to locate names within the  database, and  provision is made
to save some text  against a name.  Entries in the  database  are, by default,
organized  by record  number,  sorting may be  explicitly  performed  from the
\fBSort\fR button.
.PP
Entry to the dialog is defined as follows:-
.IP "\fI<Record No>\fR"
The identity  number of the record, a value of \fB*\fR  denotes that this is a
new record that is being inserted.
.IP "\fB<<\fR"
Moves to the start of the database.
.IP "\fB>>\fR"
Moves to the end of the database,  showing  record \fB*\fR, a new entry may be
entered.
.IP "\fB<\fR"
Moves to the previous record.
.IP "\fB>\fR"
Moves to the next record.
.IP "\fBName\fR"
The name of the individual, entered as \fIfore-name\fR and \fIsurname\fR.
.IP "\fBNickname\fR"
A pseudo name assigned to an individual.
.IP "\fBPartner\fR"
Shown in the \fBHome\fR view only. The \fIforename\fR and \fIsurname\fR of any
partner.
.IP "\fBChld\fR"
Shown in the \fBHome\fR view only in the \fBExtended Address Book Mode\fR. The
names of any children (up to 3).
.IP "\fBDOB\fR"
Date of Birth, shown in the \fBHome\fR view only in the \fBExtended Address\fR
\fBBook  Mode\fR. The dates of birth of the parents, any  children in addition
to an anniversary date.
.IP \fBCompany\fR
Shown in the \fBWork\fR view only. The name of the company.
.IP "\fBAddress\fR"
The address of the individual/company.
.IP "\fBTel\fR/\fBFax\fR/\fBMobile\fR"
Telecommunication information.
.IP "\fBEmail\fR/\fBWWW\fR/\fBFTP\fR"
Electronic communication information.
.IP \fBNotes\fR
Notes associated with the individual.
.IP \fBSave\fR
Saves the address information to file.
.IP \fBDup\fR
Duplicates the currently  selected  address entry, creating a new record card.
Typically used to construct a similar entry for a different individual.
.IP \fBDelete\fR
Deletes the currently selected entry.
.IP "\fBAddr to Buffer\fR"
Dumps the currently selected address to the current buffer.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the organizer.
.IP \fBFind\fR
\fBfind\fR  provides  access  to a search  engine,  enabling  addresses  to be
located in the address book.
.RS
.IP "\fBSearch For\fR"
The string to search for.
.IP "\fBIn Field\fR"
Pull-down menu allowing the selection of the field to be searched in.
.IP "\fBMatch\fR"
Selects how strict the search should be; typically  \fBAny  Part\fR is used as
this is the least  in-exact  search.  The  default  mode is  configured  in the
\fBSetup\fR tab.
.IP "\fBCase\fR/\fBmagic\fR"
Selects the search  criteria. The default mode is configured in the \fBSetup\fR
tab.
.IP \fBFirst\fR
Finds the first record that matches the search criteria
.IP \fBNext\fR
Finds the next record that  matches the search  criteria,  from the  currently
displayed record.
.IP \fBReverse\fR
Searches in reverse order.
.IP \fBExit\fR
Exits the search
.RE
.IP \fBSort\fR
\fBsort\fR  provides a  mechanism  to re-sort  the data base into a  different
order. The sort is performed on up to 3 different  keys  enabling  conflicting
primary sort fields to be resolved by the secondary sort criteria. The default
sort order is \fI<Record No>\fR, \fI<None>\fR, \fI<None>\fR.
.RS
.IP "\fBSort Keys\fR"
The \fIPrimary\fR, \fISecondary\fR and \fITertiary\fR sort fields are selected
by a pull down menu. The fields to be used for sorting are  selected  from the
list.
.IP "\fBSort\fR"
Performs the sort, based on the settings of the \fISort Keys\fR.
.IP "\fBExit\fR"
Exits the sort dialog.
.RE
.SS Setup
The \fBsetup\fR pane configures a number of general settings of the organizer.
.IP "\fBCurrent Organizer File\fR"
The  full   pathname  of  the   organizer   file.  By  default   this  is  set
to  \fI<userpath><userName>\fR\|\fB.eof\fR and can be altered using
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.IP "\fBChange Name\fR"
Allows the displayed name of the month and the day to be modified.
.IP "\fBFirst Day of the week\fR"
Selects the first day of the week, this sets the first day to be  displayed in
the \fBWeek\fR view and the first column in the \fBMonth\fR view.
.IP "\fBMin New Year Days\fR"
The number of days that must  appear in the first week of the New Year for the
week to be considered  week 1. Modifying the value of this field  modifies the
week number.
.LP
The  \fBCalendar\fR  section allows the wordy  representation  of the calendar
date  to be  modified.  Typically  used to  modify  the  names  to the  native
language.
.IP "\fBChange Month Name\fR"
Select the existing  month  representation  from the left-hand box and type in a
new selection into the right-hand box.
.IP "\fBChange Week Day Name\fR"
As \fIChange Month Name\fR, enables the day of the week  representation  to be
modified.
.IP "\fBFirst Day Of The Week\fR"
Selects the first day that appears in the \fBWeek\fR view.
.IP "\fBMinimum Days of New Year in first week\fR"
Specifies  the  number of days that must  appear in the first  week of the New
Year  for the week to be  designated  as week 1. This  value  allows  the week
number to be aligned with the calender weeks of standard  diaries. The default
value is 7 days; but may be reduced to 5 or 6 for typical alignment.
.LP
The \fBAddress  Book\fR section allows the operation of the address book to be
modified.
.IP "\fBUse Extended Address Book\fR"
The extended  address book allows  additional  information  to be added to the
personal  address book. The extended  information  is limited to the amount of
personal information attributed to an individual, including
.I "Date of Birth"
and
.I Child
information.
.IP "\fBImport From File\fR"
The \fBImport\fR from file allows the address book to be imported from a file.
The import data format is a single line per entry,  comma  \fC,\fR  separated.
The field  order is defined as  follows,  the  \fB*\fR  entries  indicate  the
\fBExtended\fR \fBAddress\fR \fBBook\fR fields:-
.RS
.na
.IP
.IR "Record No" ,
.IR "First Name" ,
.IR "Surname" ,
.IR "Nick Name" ,
.IR "Selected" ,
.IR "Notes" ,
.IR "Partner First Name" ,
.IR "Partner Surname" ,
.IR "Home Address" ,
.IR "Home Telephone" ,
.IR "Home Fax" ,
.IR "Home Mobile" ,
.IR "Home E-Mail" ,
.IR "Home WWW Page" ,
.IR "Home FTP Site" ,
.IR "Work Company" ,
.IR "Work Address" ,
.IR "Work Telephone" ,
.IR "Work Fax" ,
.IR "Work Mobile" ,
.IR "Work E-Mail" ,
.IR "Work WWW Page" ,
.IR "Work FTP Site" ,
.IR "Date-Of-Birth*" ,
.IR "Partner DOB*" ,
.IR "Date-Of-Marriage*" ,
.IR "Child1 Name*" ,
.IR "Child1 DOB*" ,
.IR "Child2 Name*" ,
.IR "Child2 DOB*" ,
.IR "Child3 Name*",
.IR "Child3 DOB*" .
.RE
.ad
.IP "\fBExport To File\fR"
Exports  the  address  book to a file, the  address  book is  exported  in the
current  sort order, with the fields  defined as above. The  exported  address
book may then be imported into a 3rd party package i.e. Microsoft Access, etc.
.LP
The \fBDefault  Address Find  Settings\fR  section  defines the default search
criteria used in the address book search function.
.IP "\fBWhole\fR/\fBStart\fR/\fBAny Part\fR"
Radio buttons determine how the search is performed on the string.
.RS
.BS
\fBWhole\fR matches  the whole  string  exactly.
.BU
\fBStart\fR  matches the first part of the string only (i.e.  \fCAb*\fR).
.BU
\fBAny  Part\fR finds entries that include the
search string at any position within the data base search field.
.BE 0
.RE
.IP "\fBCase Insensitive\fR"
Checked, matches the strings regardless of case. (default).
.IP "\fBMagic Mode\fR"
Allows magic strings to be included in the search string.
.SH NOTES
\fBorganizer\fR  is a macro that is implemented in  \fCorganiz*.emf\fR  files.
Organizer uses
.Ht osd 2
to create and manage the dialogs.
.PP
The maximum size of a text note is 1024 characters.
.PP
With an new  address  is  created it is added to the end of the  address  list
regardless of the current sort criteria.
.PP
\fBOrganizer\fR replaces the original \fBCalendar\fR utility.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht osd 2 .
.ad
.FH
