.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2006 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sun Feb 6 18:14:27 2005
.\"
.Id $Id: m3osd017.3,v 2.1 2006-08-24 19:21:44 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs command|osd;command|file
.so me.tni
.TH file-tool-setup 3
.XI file-tool-setup - "Define file browser tools"
.SH NAME
file-tool-setup \- Define file-browser tools
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B file-tool-setup
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B file-tool-setup
provides a dialog  interface  for  declaring  a set of actions to act on files
shown in the
.Ht file-browser 3
directory listing. Actions may be defined to interact with \fCZIP\fR files for
both creation and  extraction,  opening of \fCPDF\fR files with Adobe Acrobat,
opening of Microsoft Word \fCDOC\fR  files with Word or StarOffice  etc. These
options are shown in the \fBfile-browser\fR pop-up menu under \fBTools\fR.
.PP
The file tools may be configured from
.Ht user-setup 3
in the \fBMiscellaneous\fR tab or invoked directly from the command line using
\fBfile-tool-setup\fR,  when  invoked  then  the File  Tool  Setup  dialog  is
displayed. The dialog allows  commands to be be matched  against  certain file
types that are determined  using a regular  expression, if a filename  matches
the pattern then a command line or \*(mS command may be invoked to process the
file(s).  The command  line  includes  \fIvariables\fR  which are filled in by
\*(mS.  The  information  is  stored  in the  registry  \fIuser.erf\fR  and is
retained across sessions.
.PP
The \fBfile-tool-setup\fR presents a list of ten tool bindings, some or all of
which may be  populated  with tool  settings.  The  dialog  has the  following
fields:
.BP Name
Declares the name of the tool as it appears in the \fBTools\fR section of the
.Ht file-browser 3
pop-up menu. A single menu  short-cut  key may be defined by prefixing the hot
key with a \fC\\H\fR.
.BP "File Mask"
A regular  expression  that is used to search for files of a given  type, this
follows the standard \*(mS
.Hl "Regular Expression" RegularExpressions 2
syntax. As an  example  'all  files' is defined as  "\fC.*\fR",  PDF files are
defined as \fC.*\\.pdf\fR,  image files might be defined as a set of different
extensions \fC.*\\.\\(png\\|jpg\\|jpeg\\|bmp\\|gif\\)\fR, etc.
.BP Command
Defines  the  command  line or \*(mS  command  that is executed to process the
action. The command line  comprises  escape  characters  using the  percentage
(\fC%\fR) character, these fields are filled in automatically by \*(mS and are
defined as follows:
.RS
.TP
\fB%f\fR - Filename
.\"
A  replacement  for the  filename,  typically  passed in quotes to the command
being executed as an argument. The filename is defined as a relative  pathname
from the current  directory  location. If multiple  files are  selected in the
\fBfile-browser\fR  then the command line is executed multiple times, once for
each file, unless the \fB%*\fR  construct is used in conjunction with \fB%f\fR
when multiple files may be specified with a single command invocation.
.TP
\fB%b\fR - Base Filename
.\"
The basename of the file, i.e. no pathname and no file extension.
.TP
\fBe\fR - File Extension
.\"
The file extension of the filename.
.TP
\fB%p\fR, \fB%P\fR - File pathname
.\"
The pathname of the file without the filename.  \fB%p\fR is the file path with
\'/' forward slash directory  separators.  \fB%P\fR is the same as \fB%p\fR but
with '\\' backslashes directory separators on Microsoft Windows and DOS.
.TP
\fB%i[\fR\|\fIh\fR\|\fB|\fR\|\fIprompt\fR\|\fB|\fR\|\fIdefault\fR\|\fB]\fR .. \fB%n\fR - User Input
.\"
Specifies  that the user is to be  prompted  for input from the command  line.
Square brackets follow the \fB%i\fR which defines the command line prompt. The
\fB%i[..]\fR  is  replaced  with the user input and may be  replicated  in the
command line using \fB%n\fR where \fBn\fR is a digit \fC1..9\fR where \fB%1\fR
reproduces the first \fB%i\fR, \fB%2\fR reproduces the second, ... etc.
.IP
\fIh\fR  specifies  the type of data to be entered  including  the history and
semantics allowed. \fIh\fR may have the following values:
.sp
.nf
.na
\fC0\fR For a general string input using the general history.
\fC1\fR For an absolute file name, with completion and history.
\fC2\fR For a MicroEmacs '05 buffer name, with completion and history.
\fC3\fR For a MicroEmacs '05 command name, with completion and history.
\fC4\fR For a file name, with completion and history.
\fC5\fR For a search string, with history.
\fC6\fR For a MicroEmacs '05 mode name, with completion and history.
\fC7\fR For a MicroEmacs '05 variable name, with completion and history.
\fC8\fR For a general string using no history.
\fC9\fR For a user supplied completion list (\fCcom-list\fR).
\fCa\fR For a user supplied completion list (\fCbuffer-name\fR).
.ad
.fi
.IP
\fIprompt\fR is the prompt string presented on the command line.
.IP
\fIdefault\fR is the default value that should be used. The \fB%\fR characters
may be used and will be  replaced  with  information  from the  filename  e.g.
\fB%b\fR would be replaced with the base file name.
.IP
As an example of the user input, consider the following  command line which is
used to unzip a \fB.zip\fR file:
.IP
\fCunzip "%f" -d %i[4|Unzip sub-dir|%b]\fR
.IP
Given  an  input  file  of  \fC/home/user/foo.zip\fR  then  the  command  line
\fCunzip\fR  \fC"/home/user/foo.zip"\fR \fC-d\fR \fCfoo\fR is generated, given
that the user accepted the defualt  command line prompt of "\fCfoo\fR" for the
prompt "\fCUnzip\fR \fCsub-dir\fR"
.IP
Where the user input is  required in multiple  parts of the command  line then
the \fB%1\fR syntax may be used. The following example may be used to create a
\fB.zip\fR archive from one or more selections in the file list.
.IP
\fCrm -f "%i[4|Zip file name|%b].zip"; zip -r %1.zip%*[ "%f"]\fR
.IP
In this  instance  the user is prompted  for the \fCZip file name\fR and it is
used twice in the command  line, the default name is the base file name of the
first  file.  Consider  two  files  have  been  selected   \fCfoo.txt\fR   and
\fCbar.txt\fR where \fCfoo.txt\fR is first. The generated command line is:
.IP
\fCrm -f "foo.zip"; zip -r foo.zip "foo.txt" "bar.txt"\fR
.IP
Note how the \fIbasename\fR has been used as the default for the zip file name
to create  and this has been used in two places in the  command  line, once to
delete the old archive if it already exists and once to form the new archive.
.TP
\fB%*[\fR\|\fIargument\fR\|\fB]\fR - Multiple file command line
.\"
Utilities  that accept  multiple  arguments  on the command line use a special
construct  \fB%*\fR. By default a single  command line  invocation is made for
each file, the \fB%*\fR  construct  makes a single command line invocation for
multiple files.
.IP
The square bracket construct contains the expansion for each file specified in
the  \fBfile-browser\fR,  this will typically include the \fB%f\fR  construct.
For each argument then the brackets are expanded and concatenated  together to
form a command line, as such the bracket construct usually starts with a space
character as this separates the files.
.IP
As an  example  then zip file  construction  will take  multiple  files on the
command line to add to the archive:
.IP
\fCrm -f "%i[4|Zip file name|%b].zip"; zip -r %1.zip%*[ "%f"]\fR
.TP
\fB*\fR\fI\*(mS Command\fR - Internal command
.\"
Where the command  commences with a star character  (\fC*\fR) then the command
is treated as a \*(mS command and is executed within the editor. As an example
consider handling a zip file using the
.Ht find-zfile 3
command:
.IP
\fC*find-zfile "%f"\fR
.IP
For each file then \fBfind-zfile\fR is invoked to read the zip archive.
.RE
.BP "Default Open"
A flag that  defines  whether  this is an auto open  action. When set then the
command  is   automatically   launched   if  the  file  is   selected  in  the
\fBfile-browser\fR. When clear then the tool has to be explicitly invoked.
.BP "Hide Window"
Defines the behavior of the window  associated  with the command, for external
viewers  then the window  should be hidden.  For  internal  commands  then the
window should be visible to show the results.
.BP "Up/Down"
Changes the item order in the list/menu by moving it up or down.
.BP "Add"
Adds a new tool line to the list.
.BP "Modify"
Modifies the existing tool setting.
.BP "Delete"
Deletes the tool from the list.
.BP "Close"
Closes the tool menu.
.SH EXAMPLE
Example tool definitions:
.\"
.IP "Word processor"
Name: StarOffice/OpenOffice/Microsoft Word
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.\\(doc\\|ppt\\|xls\\|odt\\|rtf\\)\fR
.br
Command: \fCsoffice "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: yes
.br
Default Open: no
.\"
.IP "Image Viewer"
Name: XnView/Gimp/Photoshop/PaintShop
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.\\(png\\|jpg\\|jpeg\\|bmp\\|gif\\)\fR
.br
Command: \fCxnview "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: yes
.br
Default Open: yes
.\"
.IP "Postscript Viewer"
Name: Gnome Ghostview/Ghostview
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.ps\fR
.br
Command: \fCggv "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: yes
.br
Default Open: yes
.\"
.IP "Acrobat Viewer"
Name: Adobe Acrobat
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.pdf\fR
.br
Command: \fCacroread "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: yes
.br
Default Open: yes
.\"
.IP "Unzip a zip Archive in current directory"
Name: Unzip in .
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.zip\fR
.br
Command: \fCunzip "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: no
.br
Default Open: no
.\"
.IP "Unzip a zip Archive in a sub-directory"
Name: Unzip in sub-dir
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.zip\fR
.br
Command: \fCunzip "%f" -d %i[4|Unzip sub-dir|%b]\fR
.br
Hide Window: no
.br
Default Open: no
.\"
.IP "Create a zip archive"
Name: Create Zip
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\fR
.br
Command: \fCrm -f "%i[4|Zip file name|%b].zip"; zip -r %1.zip%*[ "%f"]\fR
.br
Hide Window: no
.br
Default Open: no
.\"
.IP "Add to a zip archive"
Name: Add to Zip
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\fR
.br
Command: \fCzip -r %i[4|Zip file name|%b]%*[ "%f"]\fR
.br
Hide Window: no
.br
Default Open: no
.\"
.IP "View archive file"
Name: View Archive
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\\.\\(zip\\|tgz\\|tar\\.gz\\|tar\\|gz\\|bz2\\)\fR
.br
Command: \fC*find-zfile "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: no
.br
Default Open: yes
.\"
.IP "Convert DOS to UNIX"
Name: Dos2Unix
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\fR
.br
Command: \fCme @dos2unix %*[ "%f"]\fR
.br
Hide Window: no
.br
Default Open: no
.\"
.IP "Microsoft Windows - default action"
Name: Windows Default
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\fR
.br
Command: \fCcmd /c "%f"\fR
.br
Hide Window: yes
.br
Default Open: no
.br
Notes: This action runs the default action for the file type.
.\"
.IP "Microsoft Windows - Explorer"
Name: Explorer
.br
File Mask: \fC.*\fR
.br
Command: \fCexplorer .%*[]\fR
.br
Hide Window: yes
.br
Default Open: no
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht file-browser 3 ,
.Ht find-zfile 3 ,
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.br
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2
.ad
.FH
