.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil027.4,v 2.8 2006-08-12 19:08:46 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;function;miscellaneous
.so me.tni
.TH &stat 4
.XI &stat - "Retrieve a file statistic"
.SH NAME
&stat \- Retrieve a file statistic
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B &stat
.I <stat>
.I <filename>
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B &stat
returns  the  specified  \fI<stat>\fR  on the  given  \fI<filename>\fR.  Valid
\fI<stat>\fR values are:-
.IP \fBa\fR
Returns the absolute file name, corrects  relative  paths and symbolic  links,
i.e. on  \s-1UNIX\s0  if the  filename is a symbolic  link it returns the file
name the link points to (recursive), otherwise returns the file name.
.IP \fBd\fR
Returns the file's  modification time stamp as an integer, larger values indicate a later time.
.IP \fBi\fR
Returns information on the file in a
.Hl "\*(mS list" &lset 4
formatted string. The fields within the list are defined as follows:
.RS
.IP 1
File  location, which will be one of the following:
.CS
    F   File is an ftp URL file (see note).
    H   File is a http URL link (see note).
    L   File is a local file.
.CE 0
.IP 2
File type, which will be one of the following:
.CS
    D   File is a directory.
    H   File is a http URL link (no further information is known).
    L   File is a symbolic link (UNIX).
    N   File is an untouchable system file.
    R   File is a regular file.
    X   File does not exist.
.CE 0
.IP
Note the information returned here is different to the '\fCt\fR' flag below as
the type of an ftp file is evaluated, i.e. \fCD\fR, \fCR\fR or \fCX\fR will be
returned.
.IP 3
Symbolic  file type, which will be the empty string unless the file type above
is '\fCL\fR' in which case it will be one of the following:
.CS
    D   File is a directory.
    L   File is a symbolic link (UNIX).
    N   File is an untouchable system file.
    R   File is a regular file.
    X   File does not exist.
.CE 0
.IP
Note this field has not yet been implemented.
.IP 4
File permissions or attributes, this field has not yet been implemented.
.IP "5 and 6"
File size given as an upper and lower 32 bit integers for large file  support,
these  values  will  be  the  empty  string  if the  file  size  could  not be
determined.
.IP 7
File modification time given as "\fCYYYYMMDDhhmmss\fR",  this field has not yet been
implemented.
.RE
.IP \fBm\fR
Returns  the  file's  modification  time stamp as a string,  the format of the
string is the same as
.Ht $time 5 .
.IP \fBr\fR
Returns a non-zero value if the user has permission to read the given file.
.IP \fBs\fR
Returns the size of the file in bytes.
.IP \fBt\fR
Returns the type of the file, where values returned are
.CS
    X   File does not exist.
    R   File is a regular file.
    D   File is a directory.
    H   File is a http URL link (see note).
    F   File is an ftp URL file (see note).
    N   File is an untouchable system file.
.CE 0
.IP
Note that a URL type is determined  from the file name, e.g.  http://...,  and
its existence is not verified.
.IP \fBw\fR
Returns a non-zero value if the user has permission to write to the given file.
.IP \fBx\fR
Returns a non-zero value if the user has permission to execute the given file.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example is a macro which, given a file name, uses  \fB&stat\fR
to check that file file is regular:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro test-file
    !force set-variable #l0 @1
    !if &not $status
        set-variable #l0 @ml04 "File name"
    !endif
    !if &not &equ &stat "t" #l4 1
        ml-write &spr "[%s is not a regular file]" #l0
        !abort
    !endif
!emacro

test-file "foobar"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The  macro  can be passed a file name and  aborts if the file is not  regular,
there by  returning  the state.
.PP
The  follow  example  checks  that  a file  is not  empty,  this  is  used  by
\fBmail-check\fR to test for any incoming mail.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
    !if &gre &stat "s" %incoming-mail-box
        ml-write "[You have new mail]"
    !endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Variable Functions" Functions - ,
.Ht find-file 2 .
.ad
.FH
