.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil014.4,v 2.6 2005-04-09 18:21:47 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;variable
.so me.tni
.TH "MacroArguments" 4
.XI "MacroArguments" - "Arguments to macros"
.XI "@?" - "Macro arguments (numeric argument given)"
.XI "@hash" - "Macro arguments (numeric argument value)"
.XI "@0" - "Macro arguments (macro name)"
.XI "@1" - "Macro arguments (first argument)"
.XI "@2" - "Macro arguments (second argument)"
.XI "@p" - "Macro arguments (calling macro name)"
.SH NAME
@?, @#, @0, @1, @2, @3, ... @p \- Macro arguments
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB@?\fR \- Boolean flagging if a numeric argument was supplied
.br
\fB@#\fR \- The value of the numeric argument
.sp
\fB@0\fR \- The name of the macro
.br
\fB@1\fR \- The first argument of macro
.br
\fB@2\fR \- The second argument of macro
.br
\fB@3\fR ... \fB@\fR\fIn\fR
.sp
\fB@p\fR \- The name of the calling (or parent) macro.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Macros may be passed  arguments,  allowing a macro to be used by other macros.
The \fB@?\fR and \fB@#\fR are used to determine the numeric  argument given to
the command. The  \fB@\fIn\fR  variable  (where \fIn\fR is an integer) used in
the context of a macro allows the macro body to determine it's arguments.
.PP
From a macro all commands are called in the following form
.CS
[num] <macro-name> "arg1" "arg2" ....
.CE
When  executed  macros  do not  have to be  given an  argument,  in this  case
\fB@?\fR will be \fI0\fR and \fB@#\fR will be \fI1\fR (the default  argument).
If an argument is given then \fB@?\fR will be \fI1\fR and \fB@#\fR will be set
to the numeric argument given.
.PP
The current macro command name  \fI<macro-name>\fR  can be obtain by using the
\fB@0\fR variable, e.g.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro Test-it
    ml-write @0
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
When  executed,  writes the message  "\fCTest-it\fR"  which is the name of the
macro.
.PP
Arguments  may be  passed  into  macro  commands  in the same way as  standard
commands are given  arguments.  The macro being called can access these by the
\fB@1\fR  to \fB@n\fR  variables,  where  \fIn\fR is a positive  integer.  Any
variables given as arguments are evaluated so if the variable name is required
then enclose it in quotes, e.g.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable %test-var "Hello World"

efine-macro Test-it
    ml-write &cat &cat &cat &cat @0 " " @1 " = " &ind @1
    set-variable  @1 @2
!emacro

Test-it "%test-var" "Goodbye World"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
On  execution  the macro  writes  the  message
.IP
"\fCTest-it %test-var = Hello World\fR"
.LP
and will set variable  \fC%test-var\fR to "\fCGoodbye World\fR". Note that the
\fB@1\fR has been used by reference on the  \fBset-variable\fR  rather than by
value as it is used in an assignment.
.PP
The  \fB@p\fR  variable  can be used to obtain the name of the macro  which is
executing the current macro, i.e. the value of the parent's \fB@0\fR variable.
If the macro was  executed  directly by the user then there is no parent macro
and the value of \fB@p\fR is an empty string ("").
.PP
The variables \fB@#\fR and \fB@?\fR are automatically set on entry to a macro,
the values may be  over-written  by the calling macro if required, but
their assignment values are restricted to being integer values,  assignment of
a character string causes an error.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If an  attempt is made to access an  argument  which has not been given then a
error occurs. This error can be trapped using the
.Ht !force 4 
directive,  enabling  the  macro  to take  appropriate  action, see example.
.SH EXAMPLE
Consider  the implementation of
.Ht replace-all-string 3
macro defined in search.emf:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro replace-all-string
    !force set-variable #l0 @3
    !if &not $status
        set-variable #l1 @ml05 "Replace all"
        set-variable #l2 @ml05 &spr "Replace [%s] with" #l1
        set-variable #l0 @ml00 "In files"
    !else
        set-variable #l1 @1
        set-variable #l2 @2
    !endif
    .
    .
    .
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
In this  example  if the 3rd  argument  is not given  then the macro  gets all
arguments  from the user.
.PP
The \fB@p\fR  variable having a value of "" when a macro is called directly by
the user can be useful when determining the amount of information to feed-back
to the user. For example, executing the
.Hl clean clean 3
macro is an easy way to remove  surplus white  characters, so it is often used
by other  macros  as well as by the user.  When  called  directly  \fBclean\fR
refreshes the display and prints a message of  completion,  but when called by
other macros this would cause an unwanted  screen-update and message, so clean
only does this when executed by the user. This is done as follows:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro clean
    ;
    ; Prepare to clean up file.
    .
    .
    .
    !if &seq @p ""
        screen-update
        ml-write "[Cleaned up buffer]"
    !endif
!emacro
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The parsing of arguments can be  inefficient  because of the way the arguments
have to be parsed; to get the 4th argument the 1st, 2nd and 3rd arguments must
be evaluated.  This is because each argument is not  guaranteed to be only one
element, it could be an expression  which needs to be evaluated.  Consider the
following invocation of our Test-it macro
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
Test-it &cat "%test" "-var" "Goodbye World"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The 2nd argument is not  \fI"%test"\fR  as this is part of the first argument,
the 2nd argument is in fact the 4th element and the  invocation  will have the
same effect except slower.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl MacroNumericArguments MacroNumericArguments 4 ,
.Ht define-macro 2 ,
.Ht replace-all-string 3 ,
.Ht !force 4 .
.ad
.FH
