.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m4fil025.4,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:14:14 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;directive|miscellaneousOperators
.so me.tni
.TH !nmacro 4
.XI !nmacro - "Ignore command or macro status"
.SH NAME
!nmacro \- Execute line as if not in a macro
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B !nmacro
.I command
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B !nmacro
causes  \fIcommand\fR  to be executed as if it were initiated from the command
line by the user, rather than from the macro  context.  When \*(mE  executes a
macro, by default any input the command  requires is expected on the same line
immediately  following  the command. If a line is preceded by a  \fB!nmacro\fR
(or  \fB!nma\fR)  directive, the command is executed as if it was invoked from
the command line by the user, as such, the rest of the line is ignored and all
input is obtained directly from the user, as per normal command interaction.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example is taken from macro file \fCmeme3_8.emf\fR and shows how
to add a buffer mode.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
; Add a buffer mode
define-macro add-mode
    ; Has the require mode been given as an argument, if so add it
    !force 1 buffer-mode @1
    !if &not $status
        ; No - use 1 buffer-mode to add a mode
        !nma 1 buffer-mode
    !endif
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The first line  checks  that the mode to add has not  already  been given as a
macro argument, e.g. by executing the following line
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
buffer-add-mode "view"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
If this line fails then the  argument was not  specified  and must be obtained
from the user as normal.
.SH NOTES
Individual arguments may be obtained from the user using the
.Ht @mn 4
interactive macro variables.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht @mn 4 .
.ad
.FH
