.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m4fil017.4,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:29:54 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs macro;variable
.so me.tni
.TH "CommandVariables" 4
.XI "CommandVariables" - "Last, current and get a command key/name"
.XI @clk - "Last command key"
.XI @cl - "Last command name"
.XI @cck - "Current command key"
.XI @cc - "Current command name"
.XI @cgk - "Get a key from the user"
.XI @cg - "Get a command name from the user"
.XI @cqk - "Get a quoted key from the user"
.XI @cq - "Get a quoted command name from the user"
.SH NAME
.na
.nf
@clk, @cl \- Last key or command name
@cck, @cc \- Current key or command name
@cgk, @cg \- Get a key or command name from the user
@cqk, @cq \- Get a quoted key or command name from the user
.fi
.ad
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fB@clk\fR
\fB@cl\fR
\fB@cck\fR
\fB@cc\fR
\fB@cgk\fR
\fB@cg\fR
\fB@cqk\fR
\fB@cq\fR
.fi
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  Command  Variables  allow  macros  to obtain  \*(mE  input  commands  and
keystrokes from the user. The general format of the command is:-
.IP 
\fB@c\fR\fIi\fR[\fBk\fR]
.LP
Where,
.IP \fIi\fR
Determines the source of the input as follows:-
.RS
.IP \fBl\fR 
The last input entered.
.IP \fBc\fR
The current input entered.
.IP \fBq\fR
Provides  a low  level  character  input  mechanism,  obtaining  a single  raw
character  input  from the user. The input  fetch does not  interact  with the
message line and the user is \s-1NOT\s0 prompted for input (use
.Ht ml-write 2
to create  your own  message).  \fB@cq\fR  is very low level, it is  generally
preferable to use \fB@cg\fR which provides a more intelligent binding.
.IP \fBg\fR
Like \fB@cq\fR,  \fB@cg\fR[\fBk\fR]  gets a single character input, however if
the input is bound to a function then the function name is returned instead of
the  character  e.g. if  \fC^F\fR  or  \fC<left-arrow>\fR  is  depressed  then
\fBforward-char\fR is returned. This has distinct advantages over \fB@cq\fR as
the binding  becomes  device  independent  and executes on all  platforms.  In
addition, it honors the users bindings, however bizarre.
.RE
.IP \fBk\fR
When,  omitted  command  input is returned to the caller (i.e. the name of the
command,  such as  "\fCforward-char\fR").  When present, the raw  keystroke is
returned to the caller, i.e. "\fC^F\fR (control-F).
.PP
The \fB@cl\fR, \fB@clk\fR, \fB@cc\fR and \fB@cck\fR variables can also be set,
this  feature  can be used by  macros to change  the  command  history.  While
setting the current command is limited in use, setting the last command can be
immensely useful, consider the following macro code:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
kill-line
forward-line
set-variable @cl kill-line
kill-line
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Without the setting of the  \fB@cl\fR  variable,  the current kill buffer will
contain  only the last line. But the setting of \fB@cl\fR to  kill-line  fools
\*(mS into  thinking the last command was a kill command so the last kill line
as  appended to the current  yank  buffer, i.e. the kill buffer will have both
lines in it.
.PP
This feature can be used for any command whose effect  depends on the previous
command. Such commands include
.Ht forward-line 2 ,
.Ht kill-region 2 ,
.Ht reyank 2
and
.Ht undo 2 .
This feature should not be abused as unexpected things may happen.
.SS Summary
.IP "\fB@cl\fR"
Get or set the last command.
.IP "\fB@clk\fR"
Get or set the last key stroke.
.IP "\fB@cc\fR"
Get or set the current command.
.IP "\fB@cck\fR"
Get or set the current keystroke.
.IP "\fB@cg\fR"
Get a command name from the user.
.IP "\fB@cgk\fR"
Get a keystroke from the user.
.IP "\fB@cq\fR"
Get a quoted command name from the user.
.IP "\fB@cqk\fR"
Get a quoted keystroke from the user.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example  shows how the  \fB@cc\fR  and \fB@cl\fR  commands are
used:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro current-last-command
    insert-string &spr "Last key [%s] name [%s]\\n" @clk @cl
    insert-string &spr "Current key [%s] name [%s]\\n" @cck @cc
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Pressing the up key and then executing this macro using  execute-named-command
(esc x) will insert the lines:-
.CS
Last key [up] name [backward-line]
Current key [esc x] name [execute-named-command]
.CE
.B "@cg"
like \fB@cq\fR gets a single character input, however if the keyboard input is
bound  to a  function  then  the  function  name is  returned  instead  of the
character   e.g.  if  \fC^F\fR  or   \fC<left-arrow>\fR   is  depressed   then
\fBforward-char\fR is returned. This has distinct advantages over \fB@cq\fR as
the  binding  becomes  device  independent  and  executes  on  all  platforms,
additionally it honors the users bindings, however bizarre.
.PP
.B @cq
provides  a low  level  character  input  mechanism,  obtaining  a single  raw
character  input from the user. This does not  interact  with the message line
and the user is not prompted for input (use
.Ht ml-write 2
to create  your own  message).  \fB@cq\fR  is very low level, it is  generally
preferable to use \fB@cg\fR which provides a more intelligent binding.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example is taken from  \fCdraw.emf\fR  which uses  \fB@cg\fR to
obtain  cursor  movements  from the user.  Note how the input  from  \fB@cg\fR
(stored in variable  \fB%dw-comm\fR)  is compared with the binding name rather
than any keyboard characters.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
    !repeat
        0 screen-update
        !force set-variable #l0 @cg
        !if &seq #l0 "abort-command"
            !if &iseq @mc1 "Really quit [y/n]? " "nNyY" "y"
                find-buffer :dw-buf
                0 delete-buffer "*draw*"
                -1 buffer-mode "view"
                !abort
            !endif
        !elif &seq #l0 "newline"
            \.
            \.
        !elif &seq #l0 "forward-line"
            1 draw-vert
        !elif &seq #l0 "backward-line"
            -1 draw-vert
        !elif &seq #l0 "forward-char"
            1 draw-horz
        !elif &seq #l0 "backward-char"
            -1 draw-horz
        !elif &seq #l0 "osd"
            .osd.draw-help osd
        !elif &set #l1 &sin #l0 "mdeu-="
            !if &les #l1 5
                set-variable :dw-mode &sub #l1 1
                set-variable :dw-modes #l0
                draw-setmode-line
            !elif &sin #l0 "-="
                set-variable :dw-char #l0
                draw-setmode-line
            !endif
        !else
            ml-write "[Invalid command]"
        !endif
    !until 0
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht @wc 4 ,
.Ht &kbind 4 ,
.Ht define-macro 2 .
.ad
.FH

