.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var002.5,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-fhook 5
.XI $buffer-fhook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer creation)"
.XI $buffer-dhook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer deletion)"
.XI $buffer-bhook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer current)"
.XI $buffer-ehook - "Buffer macro hook command name (buffer swapped)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$buffer-fhook"
$buffer-fhook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer creation)
.br
.Me "|$buffer-dhook"
$buffer-dhook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer deletion)
.br
.Me "|$buffer-bhook"
$buffer-bhook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer current)
.br
.Me "|$buffer-ehook"
$buffer-ehook - Buffer macro hook command name (buffer swapped)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $buffer-fhook
.I FunctionName
.br
.B $buffer-dhook
.I FunctionName
.br
.B $buffer-bhook
.I FunctionName
.br
.B $buffer-ehook
.I FunctionName
.SH DESCRIPTION
Sets the buffer create, delete, begin and end hook command which are executed:
.IP \fBbuffer-fhook\fR
When the buffer is created.
.IP \fBbuffer-dhook\fR
When the buffer is deleted.
.IP \fBbuffer-bhook\fR
When the buffer becomes the current buffer.
.IP \fBbuffer-ehook\fR
When the buffer is swapped out from being the current buffer.
.LP
The  variable  \fB$buffer-fhook\fR  is largely  redundant  as the file hook is
executed  only once and  before it can be sent. Its main use is within  macros
which  wish to  ascertain  what type of buffer it is  executing  on, i.e. if a
command was to be executed only on c file then the follow ensures that this is
the case:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!if &not &seq $buffer-fhook "fhook-cmode"
    !abort
!endif
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Where the command \fIfhook-cmode\fR is the c file hook.
.PP
\fBdhooks\fR are executed when a buffer is deleted, but before the contents of
the buffer are lost. Note that  dhooks will not be called if the buffer  never
becomes  active, or if \*(mE quits due to the receipt of a panic signal.
.PP
\fBbhooks\fR  and  \fBehooks\fR  are  usually  used to set and restore  global
variables which require different setting in the current buffer.
.PP
The order of 
The  default  settings  of  these  variable  are  determined  by  the command
.Ht add-file-hook 2 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht add-file-hook 2 .
.ad
.FH
