.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var064.5,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:06 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|buffer|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $file-names 5
.XI $file-names - "Filtered file name list"
.SH NAME
$file-names \- Filtered file name list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $file-names
.I FileName
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $file-names 
must first be  initialized  to the required  filter string, if the variable is
evaluated  before it is initialized the value will be set to "\fIABORT\fR" and
the command will fail.
.PP
The filter takes the form of a
.Hl "regex" RegularExpressions 2 .
The filter string should also contain the path to the required  directory, the
path many not contain  wild-cards. If no path is specified the the path of the
current  buffers  file name is taken, if the  current  buffer has no file name
then the current working directory is used.
.PP
On initialization,
.Ht $result 5
is set to the absolute path of the directory being evaluated. 
.PP
Once initialized, evaluating  \fB$file-names\fR  returns the name of the next
buffer which matches the filter until no more buffers are found, in which case
an empty string is returned.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example  creates a list of all files in the current  directory
to a fixed buffer "\fI*files*\fR". Note that 
.Ht &set 4
is used on the
.Ht !while 4
statement to avoid evaluating \fB$file-names\fR twice per loop.
.Me "$emf-scheme"
.CS
set-variable $file-names ".*"
!force 0 delete-buffer "*files*"
1 popup-window "*files*"
insert-string &spr "Directory listing of %s\\n\\n" $result
!while &not &seq &set #l0 $file-names ""
    insert-string &spr "    %s\\n" #l0
!done
beginning-of-buffer
-1 buffer-mode "edit"
1 buffer-mode "view"
.CE 0
.Me "$ehf-scheme"
.SH NOTES
Unlike \s-1MS-DOS\s0 and \s-1Windows\s0  systems, to match every file a filter
of just "\fI*\fR" is required. A filter of "\fI*.*\fR" only matches file names
with a '\fI.\fR' in them.
.PP
The list of files is evaluated when the variable is initialized, files created
after the initialization will not be included in the list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht find-file 2 ,
.Ht $buffer-fname 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-names 5 ,
.Ht $command-names 5 ,
.Ht $mode-names 5 ,
.Hl "Regular Expressions" RegularExpressions 2 .
.ad
.FH
