.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var081.5,v 2.6 2009-08-29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|window
.so me.tni
.TH $window-x-scroll 5
.XI $window-x-scroll - "Current window X scroll"
.XI $window-xcl-scroll - "Current window current line X scroll"
.XI $window-y-scroll - "Current window Y scroll"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$window-x-scroll"
$window-x-sroll \- Current window X scroll
.br
.Me "|$window-xcl-scroll"
$window-xcl-sroll \- Current window current line X scroll
.br
.Me "|$window-y-scroll"
$window-y-sroll \- Current window Y scroll
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$window-x-sroll\fR \fIinteger\fR
.br
\fB$window-xcl-sroll\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 65535
.sp 2
\fB$window-y-sroll\fR \fIinteger\fR
.sp
0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB$window-x-sroll\fR  defines the horizontal  scroll  position in the current
window for all lines except the current line, \fB$window-xcl-sroll\fR  defines
the  scroll  position  for  the  current  line.  The  variables  set how  many
characters  are  scrolled  off the left hand edge of the  current  window, the
variables are indirectly set by commands such as
.Ht scroll-left 2 ,
.Ht forward-char 2
etc.
.PP
\fB$window-y-sroll\fR  defines  the  vertical  scroll  position in the current
window. It sets the  number of lines are scroll up off the top of the  current
window, it is indirectly set by commands such as
.Ht scroll-up 2 ,
.Ht forward-line 2
etc.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following  example first stores the current  window's  buffer position and
the window layout. The middle '\fC...\fR' section could be replaced with macro
code  performing  any  number of  operations  before  the last  section  which
restores the initial position:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
    set-variable #l0 $window-line
    set-variable #l1 $window-col
    set-variable #l2 $window-xcl-scroll
    set-variable #l3 $window-x-scroll
    set-variable #l4 $window-y-scroll
        .
        .
        .
    set-variable $window-line #l0
    set-variable $window-col #l1
    set-variable $window-xcl-scroll #l2
    set-variable $window-x-scroll #l3
    set-variable $window-y-scroll #l4
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
If  these  variables  are set by the user or a macro  the  value is  validated
against the
.Ht $scroll 5
method and the current  cursor  position  which may lead to the variable being
reset if found to be invalid. For example, if the current  line is 10 when the
\fB$window-y-scroll\fR is set to 20 the variable will be reset to 0 as a value
of 20 will mean the current line is not displayed in the current window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht scroll-left 2 ,
.Ht scroll-up 2 ,
.Ht $scroll 5 ,
.Ht $window-line 5 ,
.Ht $window-col 5 ,
.Ht $window-acol 5 .
.ad
.FH
