.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1998 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m5var076.5
.\"  Created By    : Steven Phillips
.\"  Created       : Wed Aug 5 23:13:35 1998
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var076.5,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable;environment
.so me.tni
.TH $MENAME 5
.XI $MENAME - "MicroEmacs user name"
.XI $LOGNAME - "System user name (UNIX)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$MENAME"
$MENAME \- MicroEmacs user name
.br
.Me "|$LOGNAME"
$LOGNAME \- System user name (UNIX)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fB$MENAME\fR \fIstring\fR; Default is \fCguest\fR
.sp
\fB$LOGNAME\fR \fIstring\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $MENAME
is an  environment  variable used to initialize  the \*(mE  environment  for a
given  user.  At  start-up,  if  \fB$MENAME\fR  is  defined  then  the  user's
configuration  and  history  file  "\fCname\fR\fI.erf\fR" is located and read,
where \fCname\fR is the variable value.
.PP
If at start-up \fB$MENAME\fR is not defined then \fB$MENAME\fR is assigned the
value  of   \fB$LOGNAME\fR,   if   \fB$LOGNAME\fR  is  not  defined  the  file
\fCdefault.emf\fR is located and executed. This macro file is created by
.Ht user-setup 3
to set  \fB$MENAME\fR  to the default  user. If this fails then  \fB$MENAME\fR
defaults to \fCguest\fR and a default configuration is used.
.PP
The user configuration and history file has many uses, see
.Ht user-setup 3
and
.Ht read-history 2
for more information.
.SS "Microsoft Windows Environments"
Within  Microsoft  Windows  environments,  if  \fIlogin\fR is enabled then the
users  login name is  automatically  used as the first  choice  login name. No
environment  variables need to be set. If login is not enabled then one of the
aforementioned methods should be used.
.SS "UNIX"
In \s-1UNIX\s0 environments,  \fB$LOGNAME\fR is typically defined.
.SH NOTES
The three  variables  must be  defined  before  start-up  for them to have any
effect.
.PP
\fB$LOGNAME\fR  is often defined by the system and should not be altered. If a
different user name is required, setting of \fB$MENAME\fR is preferable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht read-history 2 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 .
.ad
.FH
