.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var070.5,v 2.6 2002-10-16 22:28:04 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|buffer|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $buffer-fmod 5
.XI $buffer-fmod - "Buffer file modes (or attributes)"
.XI $global-fmod - "Global file modes (or attributes)"
.SH NAME
.br
.Me "|$buffer-fmod"
$buffer-fmod \- Buffer file modes (or attributes)
.br
.Me "|$global-fmod"
$global-fmod \- Global file modes (or attributes)
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B $buffer-fmod
.I FileMode
.br
.B $global-fmod
.I FileMode
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $buffer-fmod
is bit based variable  setting the buffers file system modes or attributes. If
the   buffer   was   loaded   from  an   existing   file  then  the  value  of
\fB$buffer-fmod\fR  is taken  directly  from the file. But if the  buffer  was
created then the buffer  inherits the default file modes,  \fB$global-fmod\fR,
which is  determined  from the  users  umask on  \s-1UNIX\s0  or a default  on
others.
.PP
The definition of the file mode bits are platform  specific and are considered
independently, as follows:
.SS "UNIX"
The file modes of Unix are the  standard  read, write and execute  permissions
for user, group and global. See
.Hr chmod 1
for a full description of their use and effect. 
.PP
The variable is displayed in octal.
.SS "Microsoft Windows and DOS"
On Microsoft platforms each file attribute (see 
.Hr attrib 1 )
is  assigned  a bit, on  windows  95 and NT the new  file  attributes  such as
compressed are also represented. The bits are assigned as follows
.CS
Bit     Attrib Flag     Attribute
0x001       R           Read Only
0x002       H           Hidden
0x004       S           System
0x010                   Directory
0x020       A           Archive
0x080                   Normal
0x100                   Temporary
0x800                   Compressed
.CE 0
.SH EXAMPLE
The  following  example  changes  the  $buffer-fmod  so that the file  will be
executable (UNIX only), useful when writing a shell script.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable $buffer-fmod 0775
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht crlf 2m ,
.Ht ctrlz 2m ,
.Ht auto 2m .
.ad
.FH
