.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var073.5,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:07 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $mouse 5
.XI $mouse - "Mouse configuration variable"
.SH NAME
$mouse \- Mouse configuration variable
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fB$mouse\fR \fIbitmask\fR; Default is system dependent
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fB$mouse\fR  is used to define and configure the \*(mS mouse support, it
is a bit based flag where:-
.IP \fB0x00f\fR
Defines  the number of button the mouse has, only  values 1, 2 & 3 are useful.
By  default  \*(mS uses the  system  information  to  determine  the number of
buttons on the mouse, this is not fool proof so the user can set these bits to
the appropriate number if the initial value is incorrect.
.IP \fB0x010\fR
If set the mouse is enabled, if clear the mouse will not  function. On systems
which do not support  mice (such as UNIX  Termcap)  this bit will be clear and
can not be altered.
.IP \fB0x020\fR
If set the buttons are  reversed,  i.e. the left button  becomes the right and
vice versa. By default this bit is clear.
.IP \fB0xf0000\fR
Defines the current mouse icon to used, valid values are as follows:
.IP
.RS
.nf
\fB0x00000\fR - Set mouse to default icon.
\fB0x10000\fR - Set mouse to arrow icon.
\fB0x20000\fR - Set mouse to text I-beam icon.
\fB0x30000\fR - Set mouse to crosshair icon.
\fB0x40000\fR - Set mouse to the grab icon.
\fB0x50000\fR - Set mouse to the wait icon.
\fB0x60000\fR - Set mouse to the stop icon.
.fi
.RE
.IP
This feature is not supported on some systems and on others some icons are not
obvious due to platform limitations.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example checks that the mouse is currently available, if not, it
aborts.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
!if &not &band $mouse 0x10
    ml-write "[Mouse support is not currently available]"
    !abort
!endif
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH NOTES
The mouse can be easily configured using
.Ht user-setup 3 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht $system 5 ,
.Ht $platform 5 .
.ad
.FH
