.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var028.5,v 2.7 2009-08-29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|paragraph
.so me.tni
.TH $fill-mode 5
.XI $fill-mode - "Global paragraph mode; justification method"
.XI $buffer-fill-mode - "Buffer paragraph mode; justification method"
.SH NAME
.na
.Me "|$fill-mode"
$fill-mode \- Global paragraph mode; justification method
.Me "|$buffer-fill-mode"
$buffer-fill-mode \- Buffer paragraph mode; justification method
.Me $a
.ad
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$fill-mode\fR \fIjustification\fR
.br
\fB$buffer-fill-mode\fR \fIjustification\fR
.sp
.I justification 
\fCb\fR | \fCc\fR | \fCl\fR | \fCn\fR | \fCo\fR | \fCr\fR |
\fCB\fR | \fCC\fR | \fCL\fR | \fCN\fR | \fCR\fR the default is \fCN\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBfill-col\fR  variables specify the text  justification  modes for text
filling of 
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 .
.PP
.B $fill-mode
defines      the     global      default      justification      mode     i.e.
\fIleft\fR/\fIright\fR/\fIboth\fR/...   The   default   value  is   \fInone\fR
\fIautomatic\fR (\fBN\fR). The modes available are:-
.IP "\fBb\fR Both"
Enables left and right margin justification.
.IP "\fBc\fR Center"
Enables center justification.
.IP "\fBl\fR Left"
Enables left justification.
.IP "\fBn\fR None"
No filling is  performed,  adjacent  lines are not merged into a single  line.
This subtly different from \fIleft\fR justification which fills lines to the
.Ht $fill-col 5 .
.IP "\fBo\fR One Line"
Enables  the filling of the  paragraph  to a single  line.  Typically  used to
prepare a file for transfer to a word processing package.
.IP "\fBr\fR Right"
Enables right justification.
.IP "\fBB\fR Both (automatic)"
Automatically  determines  the  mode,  defaulting  to left  and  right  (both)
justification.
.IP "\fBC\fR Center (automatic)"
Automatically determines the mode, defaulting to center justification.
.IP "\fBL\fR Left (automatic)"
Automatically determines the mode, defaulting to left justification.
.IP "\fBN\fR None (automatic)"
Automatically determines the mode, defaults to \fIboth\fR and not \fInone\fR.
.IP "\fBR\fR Right (automatic)"
Automatically determines the mode, defaulting to right justification.
.LP
.B $buffer-fill-mode
specifies the fill mode value to use in a buffer, a value of 
.B $fill-mode 
is used as a default when the buffer is created. Modification of the 
.B $buffer-fill-mode 
causes  the buffer  fill mode to be  modified,  this does not affect any other
buffer.  The value is set by the  \fBfhook-xxx\fR  macro when  initializing  a
buffer using the 
.Hl "Language Templates" languageTemplates 2 . 
.B $buffer-fill-mode 
may also be modified from 
.Ht buffer-setup 3 . 
.PP
The buffer lines are automatically justified only when the justification mode
.Ht justify 2m
is enabled.  Justification  is performed  between the left and right  margins,
defined as 0 and
.Ht $buffer-fill-col 5
respectively.
.SS "Automatic Filling"
Automatic  filling  is  performed  when  the mode  \fB$buffer-fill-mode\fR  is
specified  in upper  case.  The  format  of the line (and  adjacent  lines) is
interrogated and an \fIinformed\fR  guess is made as to the expected formating
which is then  adopted. The criteria for  automatic  formatting  is defined as
follows:-
.IP \fIcenter\fR
If the left and right  margins  contain  the same  amount of white  space +/-1
character then the paragraph is centered.
.IP \fIright\fR
If the text commences past half of the
.Ht $buffer-fill-col 5
(i.e.  first  half of the line  comprises  white  space)  \s-1AND\s0  the line
extends to, or past, the \fC$buffer-fill-col\fR  then the paragraph is assumed
to be right justified.
.IP \fInone\fR
If the text commences in column 0 and occupies less than half of the line then
the  paragraph  is  assumed to be not  justified.  (i.e. left  justified,  but
consecutive lines of the paragraph are not filled)
.IP "\fIdefault\fR"
If none of the above  criteria  are met then the  default  mode is adopted, as
determined by the lower-case value of the \fB$buffer-fill-mode\fR value.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $buffer-fill-col 5 ,
.Ht $fill-col 5 ,
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht buffer-setup 3 , 
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht justify 2m .
.ad
.FH
