.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var045.5,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:30:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $timestamp 5
.XI $timestamp - "Time stamp string"
.SH NAME
$timestamp \- Time stamp string
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$timestamp\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fC<%Y%M%D.%h%m>\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $timestamp
defines the file  time-stamping  string. \*(mE searches for, and modifies, the
string to the current  time and date  whenever  the file is saved  (written to
disk) and 
.Ht time 2m 
mode is enabled.
.PP
Time stamp string is defined, by default, as "\fC<%Y%M%D.%h%m>\fR".  The first
occurrence  of the  string  in the  file is  up-dated  with  the time and date
information when the buffer is written. The
.B $timestamp
string may contain any text, and  includes  the  following,  magic  characters
escaped by a percentage (`\fC%\fR') character:-
.sp
.RS
.nf
\fCD\fR \- Day.
\fCM\fR \- Month.
\fCY\fR \- Year.
\fCh\fR \- Hour.
\fCm\fR \- Minute.
\fCs\fR \- Second.
.fi
.RE
.PP
The format  string may be redefined  into any format. The '\fC%\fR'  character
has to be delimited by another '\fC%\fR' if it is to be used in the text (i.e.
"\fC%%\fR").
.PP
The year component  (\fC%Y\fR) may be a 2 or 4 digit string, depending whether
it includes  the century.  When the time  stamping  searches  for the  \fC%Y\fR
component it searches for either variant and replaces appropriately.
.SH EXAMPLE
The startup file may define the time stamp required as follows:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable $timestamp "Last Modified : %Y/%M/%D %h:%m:%s"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
Time stamping is performed on the string :-
.CS
Last Modified : 90/11/23 10:12:01
.CE
Where the time stamp is modified according to the file (buffer) type then the 
time  stamp  string  may be  modified  within the buffer  hooks.  This  allows
different  files to utilize  different  time  stamping  strings. The following
example  shows how the entry and exit  buffer  hooks are defined to modify the
string:
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
0 define-macro bhook-nroff
    set-variable .timestamp $timestamp
    ; Buffer specific time stamp string.
    set-variable $timestamp "[%Y/%M/%D %h:%m:%s]"
!emacro
0 define-macro ehook-nroff
    ; Restore the existing time stamp.
    set-variable $timestamp .bhook-nroff.timestamp
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
On  entry  to  the  buffer   (buffer   becomes   current)   the  buffer   hook
\fBbhook-nroff\fR  is  executed  which  stores the  current  setting  and then
modifies  the time  stamp  string. On exit from the  buffer  the  buffer  hook
\fBehook-nroff\fR is executed restoring the time stamp string.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2 
.Ht time 2m .
.ad
.FH
