.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var074.5,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|file
.so me.tni
.TH $kept-versions 5
.XI $kept-versions - "Number of backups to be kept"
.SH NAME
$kept-versions \- Number of backups to be kept
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
\fB$kept-versions\fR \fIinteger\fR; Default is 0
.ad
.sp
0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fB$kept-versions\fR  allows the user to specify the number of backup versions
that are required for each file. For file "\fCXXXX\fR", each backup version is
renamed  to   "\fCXXXX.~?~\fR",   where  \fC?\fR  is  the  backup  number.  If
\fB$kept-versions\fR  is set to 0 this  feature is  disabled  and the  default
single backup file is created.
.PP
The most recent backup will always be \fC.~0~\fR  and the last version will be
\fC.~n~\fR where \fCn\fR is  \fB$kept-versions\fR  \- 1. when the file is next
saved  the  \fC.~0~\fR  backup  file is  moved to  \fC.~1~\fR,  \fC.~1~\fR  to
\fC.~2~\fR    etc,    backup    \fC.~n~\fR    is   removed.    Evidently    if
\fB$kept-versions\fR it set to a large number this can effect performance.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
\fB$kept-versions\fR  may only be used when \s-1DOS\s0 file name  restrictions
are not enabled.  This means that some  systems  (such as DOS) cannot use this
functionality, see
.Ht $system 5
for more information. Backup files are only created when buffer mode
.Ht backup 2m
is enabled.
.SH NOTES
This feature is not supported  when writing ftp files, a single backup file is
created when backup files are enabled.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $system 5 ,
.Ht autosv 2m ,
.Ht backup 2m ,
.Ht ftp 3 ,
.Ht save-buffer 2 .
.ad
.FH
