.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var022.5,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH $box-chars 5
.XI $box-chars - "Characters used to draw lines"
.SH NAME
$box-chars \- Characters used to draw lines
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$box-chars\fR "\fIstring\fR"; Default is "\fC|+++++++++-\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $box-chars
is a fixed  length  string that defines the set of  characters  used to render
lines to the screen.
.Ht Osd 2 ,
.Ht directory-tree 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2
and many  macros  use these  characters  as a platform  independent  method of
drawing lines. The characters have fixed indices defined as follows:-
.IP "Index 0"
Line joining north to south (vertical line). 
.IP "Index 1"
Line joining south to east. 
.IP "Index 2"
Line joining south to west. 
.IP "Index 3"
Line joining north to east. 
.IP "Index 4"
Line joining north to west.
.IP "Index 5"
Line joining east to south to west. 
.IP "Index 6"
Line joining north to east to south. 
.IP "Index 7"
Line joining north to east to south to west. 
.IP "Index 8"
Line joining north to south to west. 
.IP "Index 9"
Line joining north to east to south. 
.IP "Index 10"
Line joining east to west. 
.SH EXAMPLE
The
.B $box-chars
is typically platform  dependent, it's setting is determined by the characters
available  in  character  set  of  the  hosting  platform.  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  and
Microsoft Windows environments might use a string such as:-
.CS
"\\xB3\\xDA\\xBF\\xC0\\xD9\\xC2\\xC3\\xC5\\xB4\\xC1\\xC4"
.CE
X-Windows environments might use a string such as:-
.CS
"\\x19\\x0D\\x0C\\x0E\\x0B\\x18\\x15\\x0F\\x16\\x17\\x12"
.CE
Both utilize platform specific characters.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht Osd 2 ,
.Ht directory-tree 2 ,
.Ht list-registry 2
.Ht $window-chars 5 .
.ad
.FH
