.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var048.5,v 2.9 2009-08-29 17:14:15 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|window
.so me.tni
.TH $window-col 5
.XI $window-col - "Window cursor column (no expansion)"
.XI $window-acol - "Window cursor actual column"
.XI $window-aline - "Window cursor actual line"
.XI $window-eline - "Window end line"
.XI $window-line - "Window cursor line"
.XI $window-mark-col - "Window mark column"
.XI $window-mark-line - "Window mark line"
.XI $window-wcol - "Window cursor column (historic)"
.XI $window-wline - "Window cursor line (historic)"
.SH NAME
.Me "|$window-col"
$window-col \- Window cursor column (no expansion)
.br
.Me "|$window-line"
$window-line \- Window cursor line (with narrows)
.br
.Me "|$window-acol"
$window-acol \- Window cursor actual column (expansion)
.br
.Me "|$window-aline"
$window-aline \- Window cursor actual line (ignore narrows)
.br
.Me "|$window-aline"
$window-eline \- Window end line
.br 
.Me "|$window-mark-col"
$window-mark-col \- Window mark column
.br
.Me "|$window-mark-line"
$window-mark-line \- Window mark line
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$window-col\fR \fIinteger\fR [0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 65535]
.br 
\fB$window-line\fR \fIinteger\fR [1 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n]
.br
\fB$window-acol\fR \fIinteger\fR [0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n]
.br
\fB$window-aline\fR \fIinteger\fR [1 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n]
.br 
\fB$window-eline\fR \fIinteger\fR [1 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n]
.br
\fB$window-mark-col\fR \fIinteger\fR [0 <= \fIinteger\fR <= 65535]
.br 
\fB$window-mark-line\fR \fIinteger\fR [1 <= \fIinteger\fR <= n]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $window-col
is defined as the  current  position of the cursor in the current  line in the
current  window.  Column  zero  is the  left  hand  edge.  This  differs  from
\fB$window-acol\fR  in that \s-1TAB\s0 and special characters only count for 1
character. \fB$window-col\fR is valid in the range 0 - \fIn\fR.
.PP
.B  $window-acol
is defined as the current  column of the cursor in the current  window. Column
zero is the left  hand  edge.  This  differs  from  \fB$window-col\fR  in that
\s-1tab\s0 and special characters may not count for 1 character.
.PP
.B $window-line
is defined as the  current  buffer line number the cursor is on in the current
window. Line numbering starts from 1. \fB$window-line\fR is valid in the range
1 - \fIn\fR.
.PP
\fB$window-aline\fR  is  identical  to  \fB$window-line\fR  except  when  the
current buffer contains narrowed out sections before the current line. In this
case  \fB$window-line\fR  will be set to the line number without  counting the
number of lines in the narrow,  whereas  \fB$window-aline\fR  will  return the
current  line number  including  all lines  narrowed  out before it. When this
variable is set, the line  required may lie in a narrowed out section in which
case the narrow is automatically removed. See
.Ht narrow-buffer 2
for more information on narrowing.
.PP
\fB$window-eline\fR  is the end line of the window, that is the line number of
the last line of the buffer  showing in the window. This is a useful value for
mouse  operations  when the position of the mouse may be tested to ensure that
the mouse position is within the valid text region of the buffer.
.PP
.B $window-mark-line
is the current buffer line number of the mark position of 
.Ht set-mark 2 
in the current window. Line numbering  starts from 1.  \fB$window-mark-line\fR
is valid in the range 1 - \fIn\fR.
.PP
.B $window-mark-col
is the current buffer column of the mark position of 
.Ht set-mark 2 
in the current  window.  Note that this is the actual  column  position in the
line which may be different from the window column  position as \s-1TAB\s0 and
special characters only count as a single character. 
.SH NOTES
Variable  \fB$window-wcol\fR  was renamed to  \fB$window-acol\fR in June 2000.
Variable   \fB$window-wline\fR   was   also   removed   and  a  new   variable
\fB$window-y-scroll\fR  introduced at this time. The following  macro code can
be used to calculate the value of the original \fB$window-wline\fR variable:
.PP
.B $window-mark-line
and 
.B $window-mark-col
first appeared in the 2006 release of \*(mS.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
&sub &sub $window-line $window-y-scroll 1
.CE 0
.Me $ehf-scheme
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht $frame-depth 5 ,
.Ht $window-depth 5 ,
.Ht $window-width 5 ,
.Ht $window-y-scroll 5 ,
.Ht narrow-buffer 2 .
.ad
.FH
