.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var051.5,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|hilight
.so me.tni
.TH $window-chars 5
.XI $window-chars - "Character set used to render the windows"
.SH NAME
$window-chars - Character set used to render the windows
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$window-chars\fR "\fIsting\fR"; Default is
"\fC=-#*%=^|#|v*==^^||##||vv**|<-#->*||<<--##-->>** x*[]>\\.\fR"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $window-chars
is a fixed length string that defines the set of characters used to render the
windows. The characters have fixed indices defined as follows:-
.IP "Index 0"
The active window mode line separator character, This replaces all
.I "Index 1"
characters when the window is current. Default is '\fB=\fR'.
.IP "Index 1"
The inactive window mode line separator character. This character is replaced
by
.I "Index 0"
characters when the window becomes current. Default is '\fB\-\fR'.
.IP "Index 2"
\s-1UNIX\s0 based platforms only. The \fBroot\fR or \fBsuperuser\fR  indicator
character that appears on the mode line. Default is '\fB#\fR'.
.IP "Index 3"
The buffer changed indicator  character that appears on the mode line. Default
is '\fB*\fR'.
.IP "Index 4"
The buffer in
.Ht view 2m
mode indicator character that appears in the mode line. Default is '\fB%\fR'.
.IP "Index 5"
Single column vertical scroll bar split window horizontally character. Default
is '\fB=\fR'.
.IP "Index 6"
Single column vertical scroll bar up-arrow character. Default is '\fB^\fR'.
.IP "Index 7"
Single column vertical scroll bar upper-shaft character. Default is '\fB|\fR'.
.IP "Index 8"
Single column vertical scroll box character. Default is '\fB#\fR'.
.IP "Index 9"
Single column vertical scroll bar lower-shaft character. Default is '\fB|\fR'.
.IP "Index 10"
Single column vertical scroll bar down-arrow character. Default is '\fBv\fR'.
.IP "Index 11"
Single column vertical scroll bar corner character. Default is '\fB*\fR'.
.IP "Index 12-13"
Double column vertical scroll bar split window horizontally character. Default
is '\fB==\fR'.
.IP "Index 14-15"
Double column vertical scroll bar up-arrow characters. Default is "\fB\^^\fR".
.IP "Index 16-17"
Double column vertical scroll bar upper-shaft characters. Default is "\fB||\fR".
.IP "Index 18-19"
Double column vertical scroll box characters. Default is "\fB##\fR".
.IP "Index 20-21"
Double column vertical scroll bar lower-shaft characters. Default is "\fB||\fR".
.IP "Index 22-23"
Double column vertical scroll bar down-arrow characters. Default is "\fBvv\fR".
.IP "Index 24-25"
Double column vertical scroll bar corner characters. Default is "\fB**\fR".
.IP "Index 26-32"
Single column horizontal scroll bar. Default is "\fB|<-#->*\fR".
.IP "Index 33-46"
Double column horizontal scroll bar. Default is "\fB||<<--##-->>**\fR".
.IP "Index 47"
Osd title bar blank character. Default is '\fB \fR'.
.IP "Index 48"
Osd title bar right corner kill character. Default is '\fBx\fR'.
.IP "Index 49"
Osd open button character. Default is '\fB \fR'.
.IP "Index 48"
Osd close button character. Default is '\fB \fR'.
.IP "Index 49"
Displayed tab character (used when
.Ht $system 5
bit 0x80000 is set). Default is '\fB>\fR'.
.IP "Index 50"
Displayed new-line character (used when
.Ht $system 5
bit 0x80000 is set). Default is '\fB\\\fR'.
.IP "Index 51"
Displayed space character (used when
.Ht $system 5
bit 0x80000 is set). Default is '\fB.\fR'.
.SH EXAMPLE
The
.B $window-chars
is typically platform  dependent, it's setting is determined by the characters
available  in  character  set  of  the  hosting  platform.  \s-1MS-DOS\s0  and
Microsoft Windows environments might use a string such as:-
.CS
"=-#*%\\x1E\\xB1\\xDB\\xB1\\x1F\\x04 \\x1E\\xB1\\xB1\\xDB\\xDB\\xB1\\xB1 \\x1F\\x1B\\x1A\\xaf\\xfb\\xfa"
.CE
X-Windows environments might use a string such as:-
.CS
"=-#*%^\\x02 \\x02v\\x01 ^\\x02\\x02  \\x02\\x02 v\\xAB\\xBB>\\\\."
.CE
Both  utilize  platform  specific  characters  to  render  some of the  window
components.
.SH NOTES
.BS
.Ht $scroll-bar 5
allows the scroll box to be rendered in reverse  video  allowing a space to be
used for the scroll box.
.BU
Use
.Ht symbol 3
to determine the displayable characters on the host platform.
.BE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht split-window-horizontally 2 ,
.Ht symbol 3 ,
.Ht $box-chars 5 ,
.Ht $global-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $mode-line 5 ,
.Ht $mode-line-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $scroll-bar 5 ,
.Ht $scroll-bar-scheme 5 ,
.Ht $system 5 .
.ad
.FH
