.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var060.5,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:54:50 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable
.so me.tni
.TH $time 5
.XI $time - "The current system time"
.SH NAME
$time \- The current system time
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $time
"\fIstring\fR" 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $time
is a constantly changing variable which is set to the current system time. The
format of \fB$time\fR is "\fCYYYYCCCMMDDWhhmmssSSS\fR", where:-
.IP \fBYYYY\fR
The current year (full 4 digits so should be millennium bug free).
.IP \fBCCC\fR
Day of the year (0-366).
.IP \fBMM\fR
The month of the year (1-12).
.IP \fBDD\fR
The day of the month (1-31).
.IP \fBW\fR
The day of the week (0-6 Sunday=0).
.IP \fBhh\fR
The hour (0-23).
.IP \fBmm\fR
The minute (0-59).
.IP \fBss\fR
The second (0-59).
.IP \fBSSS\fR
The millisecond (0-999).
.PP
\fB$time\fR  can be set to an integer value which is a time offset in seconds,
for example if the following was executed;-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
set-variable $time "3600"
ml-write &cat "$time is " $time
set-variable $time "0"
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
The written time would one hour ahead of the system time.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following macro times the time taken to execute a user command:-
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro time
    !force set-variable #l2 @1
    !if &not $status
        set-variable #l2 @ml00 "Time command"
    !endif
    set-variable #l0 $time
    !force execute-line #l2
    set-variable #l1 $time
    set-variable #l2 &add &mid #l0 16 2 &mul 60 &add &mid #l0 14 2 &mul 60 &mid #l0 12 2 
    set-variable #l3 &add &mid #l1 16 2 &mul 60 &add &mid #l1 14 2 &mul 60 &mid #l1 12 2 
    !if &les &set #l4 &sub &rig #l1 18 &rig #l0 18 0
        set-variable #l2 &add #l2 1
        set-variable #l4 &add 1000 #l4
    !endif
    ml-write &spr "Command took %d sec %d msec" &sub #l3 #l2 #l4
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
.Ht time 3
is a macro defined in misc.emf.
.PP
.Ht organizer 3
uses \fB$time\fR to work out the current month.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht time 3 , 
.Ht organizer 3 .
.ad
.FH
