.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m5var040.5,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|macrodevelop
.so me.tni
.TH $status 5
.XI $status - "Macro command execution status"
.SH NAME
$status \- Macro command execution status
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $status
.I boolean
.sp
\fIboolean\fR \fCTRUE\fR (1) | \fCFALSE\fR (0)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $status
contains  the  return  status  of the last  command  executed  (\fCTRUE\fR  or
\fCFALSE\fR). \fB$status\fR is generally used with the
.Hl !force !force 4
directives in macros.
.SH NOTES
This variable can not be set, any attempt to set it will result in an error.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows how the variable is used within a macro construct,
it converts all \s-1tab\s0 characters to their \s-1SPACE\s0 equivalent.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
;
; tabs-to-spaces.
; Convert all of the tabs to spaces.
define-macro tabs-to-spaces
    ; Remember line
    set-variable #l0 $window-line
    beginning-of-buffer
    !force search-forward "\\t"
    !while $status
        set-variable #l1 $window-acol
        backward-delete-char
        &sub #l1 $window-acol insert-space
        !force search-forward "\\t"
    !done
    goto-line #l0
    screen-update
    ml-write "[Converted tabs]"
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
In this case \fB$status\fR monitors the
.Hl search-forward search-forward 2
command which is searching for a \s-1tab\s0  character. The command  returns a
status value of \fCTRUE\fR if a \s-1tab\s0 is found, otherwise \fCFALSE\fR.
.PP
The \fB!force\fR statement prevents the macro from terminating when a \fCFALSE\fR
condition is detected, if omitted the macro would  terminate  with an error as
soon as the \fCFALSE\fR status is encountered. The definition of
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3
can be found in format.emf.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht execute-file 2 ,
.Ht !force 4 ,
.Ht $result 5 ,
.Ht tabs-to-spaces 3 .
.ad
.FH
