.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m5var042.5,v 2.6 2005-01-15 18:29:43 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs variable|insert
.so me.tni
.TH $tab-width 5
.XI $tab-width - "Global displayable tab character width"
.SH NAME
$tab-width \- Global tab character width
.Me $a
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB$tab-width\fR \fIinteger\fR; Default is \fC8\fR
.sp
\-0 < \fIinteger\fR <= \fIn\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B $tab-width
defines the default width of a tab character  specified in spaces. The default
value is used when new files are loaded and created and seeds the variable
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5 .
.PP
Setting  tabs to arbitrary  widths is possible in  \*(mE  but you must be
aware  of a subtle  difference  that it makes to your  file and  hence to your
editing.  When  you  start  \*(mE,  the tab  width is set to the  default
(usually  every 8th column) for the tab character  (\fCCTRL-I\fR).  As long as
you stay with the default,  every time you insert the tab  character, a CTRL-I
get inserted. Hence, you logically have a single  character which might appear
to be several  spaces on the screen (or the output)  depending upon the column
location of the tab character.  This means that to remove the spacing you have
to delete a \fIsingle\fR character \-\- the tab character.
.PP
On the other hand, the moment you  explicitly set the tab interval (even if it
is to the default  value),  \*(mE  handles the tab character by expanding
the  character  into  the  required  number  of  spaces  to  move  you  to the
appropriate column. In this case, to remove the spacing you have to delete the
appropriate number of spaces inserted by \*me to get you to the right column.
.PP
The operating mode of the tab expansion is controlled by the 
.Ht tab 2m  
mode.
.SH NOTES
The   November   2004  version  of  \*(mS   removed  the  existing   variables
\fB$tabwidth\fR   and  \fB$tabsize\fR   which  were  ambiguous.  The  existing
variable  scope was global which caused  problems  when moving to buffers with
different tab width properties. The variables have been replaced with 
.B $tab-width 
and 
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5 . 
The  indentation  which was  previously  controlled  by the tab width has been
replaced with 
.Ht $indent-width 5 
and 
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht buffer-mode 2 ,
.Ht tab 2m ,
.Ht $buffer-indent-width 5 ,
.Ht $buffer-tab-width 5 ,
.Ht $indent-width 5 .
.ad
.FH
