.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Id $Id: m8fil001.8,v 2.4 2001-12-18 16:52:53 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs files
.so me.tni
.TH etf 8
.XI etf - "MicroEmacs template file format"
.SH NAME
etf \- MicroEmacs template file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.sp
.I "<Free Form Text>"
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \*(mE template file, typically  given the extension  \fB.etf\fR, is a file
template for a new file and defines common text that is automatically included
when a new file is created.
.PP
The file inclusion is usually performed by macro
.Ht etfinsrt 3 ,
called from the
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 .
The  template  file has no specific  format, although \fBetfinsrt\fR replaces
key strings with relevant information.
.SH EXAMPLE
The  template  file is inserted  with the file hooks. If a file hook is called
with an argument of \fC0\fR then the  buffer has been created and the template
file is inserted.
.Me $emf-scheme
.CS
define-macro fhook-c
    ; if arg is 0 this is a new file so add template 
    !if &not @#
        ; Is it an include h file or a c file?
        !if &seq &mid $buffer-bname &rsin "." $buffer-bname 1 "h"
            etfinsrt "h"
        !else
            etfinsrt "c"
        !endif
    !endif
    1 buffer-mode "cmode"
    1 buffer-mode "time"
    .
    .
!emacro
.CE
.Me $ehf-scheme
See
.Ht etfinsrt 3
for more information on how the template file is located and inserted into the
buffer.
.PP
The default \*(mE 'C' mode template is defined as follows, but may be replaced
with any other text:-
.CS
.ne 23
/* -*- C -*- ****************************************************************
 *
 *  			Copyright $YEAR$ $COMPANY_NAME$.
 *			      All Rights Reserved
 *
 *
 *  System        : 
 *  Module        : 
 *  Object Name   : m8fil001.8
 *  Created By    : $USER_NAME$
 *  Created       : $ASCII_TIME$
 *  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
 *
 *  Description	
 *
 *  Notes
 *
 *  History
 *	
 ****************************************************************************
 *
 *  Copyright (c) $YEAR$ $COMPANY_NAME$.
 * 
 *  All Rights Reserved.
 * 
 * This  document  may  not, in  whole  or in  part, be  copied,  photocopied,
 * reproduced,  translated,  or  reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
 * readable form without prior written consent from $COMPANY_NAME$.
 *
 ****************************************************************************/

static const char rcsid[] = "@(#) : $\&Id$";

.CE 0
.SH FILES
The default template files are located in the \*(mE \fIhome\fR directory.
.PP
User's may  specify  their own  template  files by  shadowing  the  \fIhome\fR
directory file with their own file located in a personal \*(mE directory. See
.Ht $MEPATH 5 .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "File Hooks" fileHooks 2 .
.br
.Ht etfinsrt 3 ,
.Ht &find 4 .
.ad
.FH
