.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.Id $Id: m8fil006.8,v 2.8 2009-08-29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH me32.ini 8
.XI me32.ini - "Microsoft Window's Initialization (ini) File"
.SH NAME
me32.ini \- Microsoft Window's Initialization (ini) File
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fB;\fR \fIComments commence with a semi-colon\fR
.sp
.B "[Location]"
\fBexe\fR=\|\fI<executablePathname>\fR
.sp
.B "[Defaults]"
\fBmeinstallpath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\ ...\ ;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBmepath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\ ...\ ;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBmeuserpath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBmename=\fR\|\fI<username>\fR
\fBgeometry=\fR\|\fI<width>\fR\|\fBx\fR\|\fI<depth>\fR+\|\fI<xoffset>\fR+\|\fI<yoffset>\fR
\fBenvironmentVariable=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
\fBenvironmentVariable=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
\...
\fBenvironmentVariable=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
.sp
\fB[\fR\|\fI<userName>\fR\|\fB]\fR
\fBmeinstallpath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\ ...\ ;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBmepath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\ ...\ ;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBmeuserpath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBgeometry=\fR\|\fI<width>\fR\|\fBx\fR\|\fI<depth>\fR+\|\fI<xoffset>\fR+\|\fI<yoffset>\fR
\fBmename=\fR\|\fI<username>\fR
\fBenvironmentVariable=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
\fBenvironmentVariable=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
\...
\fBenvironmentVariable=\fR\|\fI<value>\fR
.sp
\fB[\fR\|\fI<userName>\fR\|\fB]\fR
\fBmeinstallpath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\ ...\ ;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\fBmepath=\fR\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR\|;\|\ ...\ ;\|\fI<directoryPath>\fR
\...
.fi
.ad
.SH PLATFORM
.B "Microsoft Windows environments only"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B me32.ini
is the Microsoft Windows  configuration file, located in the windows directory
(typically \fBC:\\Windows\fR or \fBC:\\WINNT\fR), the
.B me32.ini
file is  primarily  used to  counteract  the  deficiencies  of  Windows  shell
environment (as compared with \s-1UNIX\s0) with respect to the  initialization
of environment variables. The
.B me32.ini
file is  comparable to the  \s-1UNIX\s0  \fI.Xdefaults\fR  and  \fI.profile\fR
files.
.PP
The configuration  file is split into two sections, a \fBDefaults\fR  section,
which defines system  settings and a \fBUser\fR  section which define settings
on a per user basis. Both sections allow  environment  variables to be defined
for  export.  The  \fIdefaults\fR  section  is  executed  first  and  then the
\fIuser\fR  section  which matches the users name. The format of both sections
is identical.
.SS "Section Keywords"
The keywords identified in each section are defined as follows:-
.IP "\fBmepath\fR"
Equivalent to the setting of the variable
.Ht $MEPATH 5 
to  define  the   directory   (or  folder)   location  of  the  \*(mE  default
configuration  files. If the  assignment  string  is empty  then any  previous
value is removed.
.IP "\fBmeinstallpath\fR"
Equivalent of setting the environment variable
.Ht $MEINSTALLPATH 5 
to define the directory (or folder)  location of the macros  directory. If the
assignment string is empty then any previous value is removed.
.IP "\fBmename\fR"
The \*(mS 
.Ht $user-name 5
to use rather than the login name.  If the
assignment string is empty then any previous value is removed.
.IP \fBmeuserpath\fR
The value of 
.Ht $user-path 5 .
If the assignment string is empty then any previous value is removed.
.TP
\fBgeometry\fR=\|\fI<width>\fR\|\fBx\fR\|\fI<depth>\fR+\|\fI<xoffset>\fR+\|\fI<yoffset>\fR
.\"
The  geometry of the window the width and height are  specified in  character,
the position of the window is specified as an offset. If the assignment string
is empty then any previous preset value is removed.
.LP
All other  variables  (except  those  commencing  with  \fCmsdev\fR  which are
reserved for 
.Ht memsdev 1 )
are pushed into the environment as environment variables which are made during
the editing session.
.SS "Location Section"
The location  section,  labeled  \fB[Location]\fR,  identifies the location of
\*(mE,  and  is  typically  used  by  other  components  to  find  and  launch
MicroEmacs. The section includes the following keys:-
.IP \fBexe\fR
The absolute pathname to the \*(mE executable image. External programs such as 
.Ht memsdev 1
may use this entry to find the executable. This section may be omitted.
.SS "Defaults Section"
The default section, labeled  \fB[MeYYMMDD]\fR or \fB[Defaults]\fR  define the
global variable  settings for all users. The dated form is searched for first,
the date corresponds to the specific version of \*(mS as displayed by 
.Ht about 2 . 
When omitted then the 
\fB[Defaults]\fR
section is used. Either, or both sections may be omitted.
.SS "User Section"
The \fBUser  Section\fR is executed after the  \fBDefaults  Section\fR. The
\fBUser Section\fR uses the 
.Ht $user-name 5
which is defined as follows:-
.BS
The  environment  variable
.Ht $MENAME 5 
.BU
The \fIlogin\  name\fR under Windows '95 or NT. If the \fIlogin\  name\fR is
defined then the variable
.Ht $user-name 5
is set to this value.
.BU
The  environment  variable
.Ht $LOGNAME 5
if the \fIlogin\ name\fR cannot be located.
.BE
A single user section is executed that  corresponds to the user. If the system
does not use a login  system  then a  \fBmename\fR  entry may be placed in the
defaults section to force a name.
.PP
A \fBmename\fR entry appearing in the \fIuser\fR section is used to change the
login  name to a more  sensible  name when the user login and \*(mS user files
use different names.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is an example of the \fBme32.ini\fR  file, there is no login and
a user \fIJohn Doe\fR defines his \*(mS user name:
.CS
; External locater for the executable 
[Location]
exe=c:\\Program Files\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe
;
; Default global section
[Defaults]
; mepath
; The location of the MicroEmacs common files.
meinstallpath=d:\\jasspa
mename=john
;
; User John Doe
[john]
; meuserpath - The location of the users MicroEmacs directory.
meuserpath=d:\\jasspa\\john
; Define some environment variables.
INFOPATH=c:\\info
.CE
Note that  multiple  users share the same  \fBme32.ini\fR  file, each user may
include their own  configuration  settings  which may be  interrogated  in the
configuration files. In the following example a user \fIJohn Doe\fR with login
name of \fIjohndoe\fR uses private configuration files called \fIjohn\fR:
.CS
; External locater for the executable 
[Location]
exe=c:\\Program Files\\JASSPA\\MicroEmacs\\me32.exe
;
; Defaults for RC4 Release
[Me040201]
meinstallpath=d:\\jasspa_rc4
;
; Default global section
[Defaults]
; mepath
; The location of the MicroEmacs common files.
meinstallpath=d:\\jasspa
; Define some environment variables.
INFOPATH=c:\\info
;
; User John Doe
[johndoe]
; meuserpath - The location of the users MicroEmacs directory.
meuserpath=d:\\jasspa\\john
; mename - Use "john" instead of "johndoe"
mename=john
; Define startup screen size.
geometry=110x50+70+30
;
; User Jane Doe
[janedoe]
meuserpath=d:\\jasspa\\janedoe
.CE 0
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht user-setup 3 ,
.Ht $MEINSTALL_PATH 5 
.Ht $MENAME 5 ,
.Ht $MEPATH 5 ,
.Ht $MEUSERPATH 5 ,
.Ht $user-name 5 ,
.Ht $user-path 5 ,
.Ht emf 8 .
.ad
.FH
