.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ019.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ019.9,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH tcl 9
.XI tcl - "TCL programming language"
.XI tk - "TK programming language"
.XI wish - "TCL shell file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
tcl, tk \- TCL Programming language templates
.SH FILES
.na
.B hktcl.emf
\- TCL/TK programming language hook definition
.br
.B tcl.etf
\- TCL/TK programming language template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.tcl\fR, \fB.tk\fR \- TCL/TK file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB^#![ \\t]*/.*wish\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the executable. The tcl files may be extension less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  \fBtcl\fR  provides  hilighting  and  automatic  formatting  features, in
addition to a number of tools to handle the file type.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled,  allowing the modification  time-stamp to be maintained
in the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBTags\fR"
A C-tags file may be  generated  within the editor using the  \fBTools\fR  \->
\fBTcl-Tools\fR \-> \fBCreate Tag File\fR.
.Ht find-tag 2
takes the user to the file using the tag information.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the C and C++ files. The folds occur about
braces \fB{\fR...\fB}\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht fold-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht fold-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
Note that folding does not operate on K&R style code.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with stars (*).
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht fold-all 3 ,
.Ht fold-current 3 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht tcltags 3f ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
