.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ017.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ017.9,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH sh 9
.XI sh - "Bourne shell file"
.XI ksh - "Korn shell file"
.XI csh - "C-Shell file"
.XI zsh - "Z-Shell file"
.XI login - "Shell user login file"
.XI profile - "Shell user profile"
.XI tcshrc - "T-Shell start up file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
*sh \- UNIX shell files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkshell.emf
\- UNIX shell file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.sh\fR \- Bourne shell file
.br
\fB.ksh\fR \- Korn shell file
.br
\fB.csh\fR \- C-Shell file
.br
\fB.zsh\fR \- Z-Shell file
.br
\fB.login\fR \- Shell user login file
.br
\fB.profile\fR \- Shell user profile
.br
\fB.tcshrc\fR \- T-Shell start up file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP 
\fB#![ \\t]*/.*sh\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the  executable.  The  shell  files  may  be  extension  less  and  are  still
recognized.  Note that this is the typical  method of identifying  shell files
and will recognize other files not mentioned above i.e. \fBbash\fR shells.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBshell\fR  file type template  provides  simple  hilighting of the shell
files.
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.PP
There is a heavy bias towards Bourne, Korn and Zsh shells. The author is not a
csh shell user so has probably missed a lot of csh features.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fvwm 9 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
