.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ002.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ002.9,v 2.0 2001-03-08 21:31:02 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH emf 9
.XI emf - "\*(mE Macro File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
emf \- \*(mE Macro File
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkemf.emf
\- \*(mE Macro File hook definition
.br
.B emf.etf
\- Template file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.emf\fR \- \*(mE Macro File
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBemf\fR  file type  template  handles the  hilighting of the \*(mE macro
files. 
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow commands, variables, logical, comments, strings
and characters of the language to be differentiated  and rendered in different
colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The 
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs 
performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.IP "\fBTags\fR"
A C-tags file may be generated within the editor using the \fBTools\fR \->
\fBEmf-Tools\fR \-> \fBCreate Tag File\fR.
.Ht find-tag 2
takes the user to the file using the tag information.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the \fBemf\fR files. The folds occur about
\fBdefine-macro\fR and \fB!emacro\fR text located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht fold-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht fold-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*e\*e\fR \- Command complete.
.br
\fB\*a\*ci\fR \- Restyle the current region.
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.SH BUGS
No bugs reported
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht emftags 3f ,
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht fold-all 3 ,
.Ht fold-current 3 ,
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
