.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ003.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ003.9,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH txt 9
.XI txt - "ASCII plain text file"
.XI doc - "ASCII plain text document file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
txt, doc \- Plain text document file
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkdoc.emf
\- Plain text hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.txt\fR \- ASCII plain text file
.br
\fB.doc\fR \- ASCII plain text document file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdoc\fR  file type  template  handles the  hilighting and text formating
of a plain  text  file.  Within  the  text  document  justification  and  word
wrapping are typically enabled. The template allows the user to format text as
left, right, center or no justification.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The automatic layout of the text is restricted to justification and wrapping
and the detection of bulleted lists.
.Ht fill-bullet 5
may be used to  determine  the  character  set  used  for  bullet  points,  on
encountering a bullet the left-hand justification might be modified.
.IP "\fBFormatting rules\fR"
The default mode of operation is automatic  mode which  attempts to retain the
document style whenever a paragraph is re-formatted. This allows rapid entry of
text into a reasonable format with no special formating character embedded in
the text.
.IP
The automatic formatting rules used by
.Ht fill-paragraph 2
in an automatic text mode are defined as follows:-
.RS
.IP "Text on column 0"
Text appearing in the first column is always assumed to be left  justified, and
non-wrapping, provided that the text does not extend to the
.Hl "fill column" fill-col 5 .
This is typically used for headers and addresses.
.IP "Text on right edge"
Text ending at the right edge (the
.Ht fill-col 5 ),
which  commences  from more that 50% of the page  width is assumed to be right
justified, non-wrapping. Typically used for addresses.
.IP "Text centered"
Text  which  is  centered  on the  page  is  assumed  to be  centered,  this  is
non-wrapping.
.IP "Indented"
All other text, not covered by the cases above is assumed to be available  for
filling.  In this  case the text is  filled by the  paragraph  and  left/right
justification is applied.
.RE
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*ch\fR \- Help information on current mode.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cs\fR \- Spell the buffer.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cb\fR \- Fill both;  perform  left and right  justification  on the
margins.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cb\fR \- Fill center; center the text on the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc  \*cl\fR \- Fill left; fill the text on the  paragraph  (ragged  right
edge).
.br
\fB\*cc  \*cr\fR \- Fill right; place text on right margin.
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Reduce a paragraph to a single line.
.br
\fB\*cc a\fR \- Move to automatic formatting mode (default).
.br
\fB\*cc l\fR \- Change mode to left formating
.br
\fB\*cc r\fR \- Change mode to right formating
.br
\fB\*cc r\fR \- Change mode to both formating
.br
\fB\*cc c\fR \- Change mode to center formating
.br
\fB\*cc n\fR \- Change mode to no formating
.SH NOTES
To move text to a word  processor  then it is advised that all  paragraphs are
reduced to single lines,  leading  white space should be deleted (any possibly
blank lines) and then import to the word  processor.  This saves  considerable
time as the word processor  styles may be applied without  handling spaces and
band end of line characters.
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB-!- document -!-\fR"
MicroEmacs  specific  tag,  recognizes  the file as a plain text  document. No
hilighting of the document is performed.
.IP "\fB-!- document; sectioned -!-\fR"
MicroEmacs  specific  tag,  recognizes  the file as a document  that  contains
sections. A crude section hilighting is enabled as follows:-
.IP
Lines  commencing  with \fB>\fR are assumed to be comments,  typically used at
the head of the document .
.RS
.CS
> -!- document; sectioned -!-
>
> Author:       My Self
> Created:      11/11/97
> Modified:     <211197.1003>
> Location:     /xx/yy/zz.doc
.CE 0
.RE
.IP
All lines commencing with start (\fC*\fR) are assumed to be bullet lists. Bullet
is hilighted.
.IP
All lines commencing with \fC[a-zA-Z])\fR or \fC[0-9])\fR are assumed to be
minor sections. The section number is hilighted. e.g.:
.RS
.CS
a) text
1) text
.CE 0
.RE
.IP
All text in single or double quotes is hilighted, assumed to be
literal  text.  and are  hilighted  i.e.  This is a  \fB"double  quote"\fR  or
\fB'a'\fR single quote.
.IP
Lines commencing with underscore (\fC_\fR) are hilighted to the end.
typically used as demarcation breaks or for section underlining
.IP "\fB-!- Document; pseudo-code -!-\fR"
The  document  contains  pseudo  code, and the pseudo code is  hilighted.  The
pseudo-code tokens are defined as follows:-
.IP
\fB//\fR introduces a comment to the end of the line.
.RS
.IP "Command words comprise:-"
\fCBEGIN\fR,
\fCBREAK\fR,
\fCCASE\fR,
\fCCLEAR\fR,
\fCCONTINUE\fR,
\fCDO\fR,
\fCDONE\fR,
\fCELIF\fR,
\fCELSE\fR,
\fCEND\fR,
\fCENDIF\fR,
\fCFOR\fR,
\fCFUNCTION\fR,
\fCGOTO\fR,
\fCIF\fR,
\fCONEVENT\fR,
\fCONINTERRUPT\fR,
\fCPROCEDURE\fR,
\fCREPEAT\fR,
\fCRETURN\fR,
\fCSET\fR,
\fCSWITCH\fR,
\fCTHEN\fR,
\fCTO\fR,
\fCUNTIL\fR,
\fCWHILE\fR,
.IP "Pseudo logical operators include"
\fCAND\fR,
\fCFALSE\fR,
\fCMOD\fR,
\fCNOT\fR,
\fCOR\fR,
\fCTRUE\fR,
\fCXOR\fR,
.RE
.IP "\fB-!- document; sectioned; pseudo-code -!-\fR"
A combination of both of the above.
.SH BUGS
The  automatic  mode  sometimes  mistakes an indented  paragraph for a centered
paragraph. This only typically  occurs when the first line of the paragraph is
not filled to the right. When the formatting error occurs,  simply pad the line
out so that it extends past the fill column and re-apply the formatting.
.PP
Unfortunately  there is nothing that can be done to alleviate this problem, but
it occurs infrequently.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fill-col 5 ,
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht spell-buffer 3 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
