.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ027.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ027.9,v 2.3 2001-12-06 00:04:32 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH info 9
.XI info - "GNU Info file" filetype
.SH SYNOPSIS
info \- GNU Info File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B info.emf
\- Info macro file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
No  fixed  extension,  the  root  of  the  \fIinfo\fR  tree  is  specified  by
\fC$INFOPATH\fR/dir. The default search paths on different platforms are:-
.IP
\fCc:/info\fR \- \s-1MS-DOS\s0 and MS-Windows (all).
.br
\fC/usr/local/info\fR \- All \s-1UNIX\s0 platforms.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \s-1GNU\s0 \fIinfo\fR files are handled by the command
.Ht info 3
which starts the info reader. This reads the initial info file  \fCdir\fR  and
initializes the \fIinfo\fR file traversal.  Where the \fIinfo\fR  directory is
not in the  aforementioned  locations  then  the  \fC$INFOPATH\fR  environment
variable should specify the base directory.
.PP
The standard  \fIinfo\fR  navigation  keys are in effect within the \fIinfo\fR
buffers. The \fImouse\fR may also be used to select the next info page.
.SH "BUGS"
There  is no  support  within  \*(mE to  regenerate  the  \fIinfo\fR  tags and
indexes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht info 3 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
