.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ008.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ008.9,v 1.2 2000-10-21 17:11:06 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH ini 9
.XI ini - "MS-Windows Initialization File"
.XI hpj - "MS-Windows Help Project File"
.XI reg - "Registry file"
.XI rgy - "Registry file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
ini, hpj, reg, rgy \-  MS-Windows initialization and registry files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkini.emf
\- MS-Windows initialization and registry files.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.ini\fR \- MS-Windows Initialization File
.br
\fB.hpj\fR \- MS-Windows Help Project File
.br
\fB.reg\fR \- Registry File
.br
\fB.rgy\fR \- (Other) registry File
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBini\fR  file type  templates  provide  simple  hilighting of MS-Windows
initialization  and registry  files. The file format is similar to a number of
other registry type files which are also over-loaded into the same template.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  template   provides  minimal   hilighting  ,  but  allows  the  different
components of the file to be differentiated.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the ini files. The folds occur about
lines with leading square brackets \fB[\fR...\fB[\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht fold-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht fold-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.SH BUGS
None reported.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht bat 9 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
