.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2009 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ043.9,v 1.2 2009-08-29 17:14:33 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH ada 9
.XI ada - "Ada programming language"
.XI adb - "Ada programming language"
.XI ads - "Ada programming language"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Ada \- Ada programming language
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkada.emf
\- Ada programming language file hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.ada\fR, \fB.adb\fR, \fB.ads\fR \- Ada programming language
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBada\fR file type template provides simple highlighting of Ada files.
.\".IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
.\"On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.\".Ht time 2m
.\"is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
.\"the header.
.IP  \fBHighlighting\fR
The highlighting  features allow commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*eh\fR \- Key binding help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hash (#).
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Format a comment
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
