.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2002 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ026.9,v 2.5 2002-01-11 21:58:43 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs
.so me.tni
.TH nroff 9
.XI "nroff" - "UNIX nroff file" filetype
.XI "troff" - "UNIX troff file" filetype
.XI "0-9" - "UNIX t/nroff file" filetype
.XI "tni" - "UNIX t/nroff include file" filetype
.XI "so" - "UNIX t/nroff include file" filetype
.XI "tex2nr" 3 "Convert a Latex file into nroff" command
.XI "aman" 3 "Compile an nroff file into a buffer (UNIX)" command
.SH SYNOPSIS
0-9, tni, so \- UNIX t/nroff file.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hknroff.emf
\- UNIX t/nroff file.
.br
.B nroff.etf
\- UNIX t/nroff template file
.br
.B ntags.emf
\- t/nroff tags generator macro definition.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
.BR 3 ,
.BR 4 ,
.BR 5 ,
.BR 6 ,
.BR 7 ,
.BR 8 ,
.B  9
\- UNIX t/nroff files.
.br
.BR tni ,
.B  so
\- UNIX t/nroff include files.
.br
.B sm
\- \fI[Special]\fR Superman t/nroff file.
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.IP "\fB-*- nroff -*-\fR"
Recognized by GNU and MicroEmacs.  Denotes a t/nroff type file, may be
used in \fB.1\fR/\fB.9\fR, \fB.tni\fR and \fB.so\fR files.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBnroff\fR file type  templates  handle UNIX n/troff type files.
.IP "\fBGeneral Editing\fR"
On creating a new file, a new header is automatically included into the file.
.Ht time 2m
is by default enabled, allowing the modification time-stamp to be maintained in
the header.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allow  commands,  variables,  logical,  preprocessor
definitions,   comments,   strings  and  characters  of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBTags\fR"
A C-tags file may be generated within the editor using the \fBTools\fR \->
\fBNroff-Tools\fR \-> \fBCreate Tag File\fR.
.Ht find-tag 2
takes the user to the file using the tag  information.  The tags are generated
using the
.B ".XI"
keyword, this may not be standard for all nroff pages.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled  within the C and C++ files. The folds occur about
sections \fB.S\fR[\fBHS\fR]...\fB.S\fR[\fBHS\fR] located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht fold-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht fold-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
Note that folding does not operate on K&R style code.
.IP "\fBTools\fR"
The nroff buffer provides a facility to toggle the hilighting of the buffer on
and off. If font change inserts are used  (\fB\efB\fR,  \fB\efR\fR, etc), then
the enclosed \fBbold\fR and \fIitalic\fR regions are hilighted, hiding the
escape  sequences.  This  allows  the  nroff  text  to  be  viewed  in a  more
representative rendered format.
.IP
The local buffer command \fBaman\fR invokes, the following command sequence
(defined  in  \fChkman\fR)  to  render a nroff  \fBman\fR  file  into a buffer
window;-
.RS
.CS
soelim <file> | tbl -TX | neqn | nroff -man | col -x
.CE 0
.RE
.IP
The command \fBtex2nr\fR attempts to convert a
.Ht latex 9
file into an nroff file. The \fIlatex\fR  escape  sequences are converted into
their nroff equivalents. The command is only made available when an Nroff file
is loaded (as the command is defined in the \fChknroff.emf\fR file).
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*cc \*cs\fR \- Insert a font size escape character \fB\\S0\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cr\fR \- Insert a roman font escape character \fB\efR\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cb\fR \- Insert a bold font escape character \fB\efB\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ci\fR \- Insert a italic font escape character \fB\efI\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Insert a courier font escape character \fB\efC\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cp\fR \- Insert a previous font escape character \fB\efP\fR.
.br
\fB\*eo\fR, \fB\*eq\fR \-
.Ht fill-paragraph 2
fills paragraph to next \fC\.XX\fR command.
.br
\fB\*cc b\fR \- Bold region by inserting \fB\efB\fR .. \fB\efR\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc c\fR \- Courier region by inserting \fB\efC\fR .. \fB\efR\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc c\fR \- Italic region by inserting \fB\efI\fR .. \fB\efR\fR.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ch\fR \- Toggle hilighting on/off.
.br
\fB\*cc \*c&\fR \- Adds nroff padding \fB\ef&\fR about words.
.br
\fB\*cx \*c&\fR \- Removes nroff padding \fB\ef&\fR about words.
.br
\fB\*eh\fR \- Nroff help.
.sp 1
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.SH BUGS
The nroff  language  template is heavily  biased towards the \fBman\fR  macros
only and includes all of the extension  macros used for generating the JASSPA
hypertext documentation.
.PP
The  template  in the  current  form  has been  used  entirely  by  JASSPA  in
generating all of the  documentation  (\fBHTML\fR,  \fBWinhelp\fR,  \fBehf\fR,
\fBPostScript\fR)  used by \*(mE. It does not  include all of the  troff/nroff
keywords, or keywords for any of the standard macro packages.
.PP
The JASSPA  documentation  preparation  tools are proprietary and have not been
made publicly available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht fill-paragraph 2 ,
.Ht find-tag 2 ,
.Ht fold-all 3 ,
.Ht fold-current 3 ,
.Ht ntags 3f ,
.Ht time 2m .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
