.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ021.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ021.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH erf 9
.XI erf - "\*(mE registry file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
erf \- \*(mE registry file
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkerf.emf
\- \*(mE registry file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.erf\fR, \fB*registry*\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBerf\fR file type template performs the hilighting of the registry file.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allows components of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2 
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht list-registry 2 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
