.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ031.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 10 23:48:24 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from Samsung (SERI) Ltd.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ031.9,v 2.1 2001-05-14 19:55:02 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH vb 9
.XI vb - "Visual Basic"
.XI bas - "Visual Basic"
.XI cls - "Visual Basic"
.SH SYNOPSIS
bas, cls \- Visual Basic file
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkvb.emf
\- Visual Basic macro file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.bas\fR, \fB.cls\fR
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.na
\fB-!- msvb -!-\fR
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBVisual Basic\fR template performs the hilighting of Visual Basic files.
The file type is recognised by the standard  extension, or by the inclusion of
the magic string.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The  hilighting  features allows components of  the  language  to  be
differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP "\fBAuto Layout\fR"
The
.Hl "indentation mechanism" indent 2
is enabled which performs automatic layout of the text.
.Ht restyle-region 3
and
.Ht restyle-buffer 3
are available to reformat  (re-layout) selected sections of the buffer, or the
whole buffer, respectively. The default indentation setting is 2.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
