.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" This is part of the JASSPA MicroEmacs documentation files.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 JASSPA (www.jasspa.com)
.\" See the file "me.nrs" for copying and conditions.
.\"
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Thu Jun 24 22:19:53 1999
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ039.9,v 1.2 2005-01-23 17:38:05 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH samba 9
.XI samba - "Samba smb.conf configuration file"
.XI smb.conf - "Samba configuration file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
Samba \- Samba smb.conf configuration file
.SH FILES
.na
.B hksamba.emf
\- Samba smb.conf configuration file
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fBsmb.conf\fR \- Samba configuration file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBSamba\fR file type template provides simple highlighting of the Samba
\fCsmb.conf\fR file.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The hilighting  features allow commands, variables,  operators and comments of
the language to be differentiated and rendered in different colors.
.IP
Comments  may be formatted  using  \fC\*eo\fR,  which  reformats  the comments
according  to  the  current  fill  paragraph.
.IP "\fBFolding and Information Hiding\fR"
Generic  folding is enabled,  the folds occur about
bracketed constructs \fB<...>\fR...\fB</...>\fR located on the left-hand margin.
.Ht collapse-all 3
(un)folds all regions in the file,
.Ht collapse-current 3
(un)folds the current region.
.IP "\fBList Items\fR"
Item listing is available and the key  constructs of the file may be listed in
the \fIitem-list\fR.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
The short cut keys used within the buffer are:-
.IP
\fB\*eh\fR \- Key binding help information.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cc\fR \- Comment out the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*cd\fR \- Uncomment the current line.
.br
\fB\*cc \*ce\fR \- Comment to the end of the line with hash (#).
.br
\fB\*cc \*co\fR \- Format a comment
.br
\fBf2\fR \- (un)fold the current region
.br
\fBf3\fR \- (un)fold all regions
.br
\fBf6\fR \- List items.
.br
\fB\*ef6\fR \- Close list items window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
