.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ009.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ009.9,v 2.2 2001-07-14 10:12:05 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH f 9
.XI f - "Fortran File"
.XI f77 - "Fortran 77 File"
.XI f90 - "Fortran 90 File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
f, f77, f90 \- Fortran files
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkf90.emf
\- Fortran hook definition
.br
.B f90.etf
\- Fortran 90 template file.
.br
.B f.etf
\- Fortran (77) template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.f\fR \- Fortran file
.br
\fB.f77\fR \- Fortran 77 file
.br
\fB.f90\fR \- Fortran 90 file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBf90\fR file type  templates provide simple hilighting of Fortran 77 and
Fortran 90 files, the template  provides  minimal  hilighting of both language
syntaxes, which are overloaded into the same file.
.PP
The major  difference  between  the file  types,  apart from the new  reserved
words, is the  comments. In Fortran 90 comments are  introduced  with  \fB!\fR,
while the other types use a \fBc\fR in column 0.
.SH BUGS
The Fortran hilight file is in it's infancy and a number of it's tokens may be
misplaced.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
