.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ024.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ024.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH perl 9
.XI perl - "Practical Extraction and Report Language File"
.XI pl - "Practical Extraction and Report Language File"
.SH SYNOPSIS
perl \- Practical Extraction and Report Language File.
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkperl.emf
\- Practical Extraction and Report Language file hook definition
.br
.B perl.etf
\- Practical Extraction and Report Language header template file.
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.pl\fR \- Perl file
.ad
.SH "MAGIC STRINGS"
.TP
\fB#![ \\t]*/.*perl\fR
.\"
\*(mE recognizes the magic string on the first line of the file used to locate
the executable. The Perl files may be extension-less and are still recognized.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBperl\fR file type template  provides  simple  hilighting of Perl files,
the template provides minimal hilighting.
.PP
File recognition is performed using the standard file extension  \fB.pl\fR, or
by the magic string.
.SH BUGS
None  reported.  Template  could  probably  benefit  from  some  form  of auto
indentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht indent 2 ,
.Ht restyle-buffer 3 ,
.Ht restyle-region 3 .
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" FileTypes -
.ad
.FH
