.\"*-*- nroff -*-*************************************************************
.\"
.\"			Copyright 1999 JASSPA.
.\"			      All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\"
.\"  System        :
.\"  Module        :
.\"  Object Name   : m9typ022.9
.\"  Created By    : Jon Green
.\"  Created       : Sat Feb 6 14:22:09 1999
.\"  Last Modified : <000719.1013>
.\"
.\"  Description
.\"
.\"  Notes
.\"
.\"  History
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 JASSPA.
.\"
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\"  This  document  may not, in  whole  or in part, be  copied,  photocopied,
.\"  reproduced,  translated, or reduced to any  electronic  medium or machine
.\"  readable form without prior written consent from JASSPA.
.\"
.\"***************************************************************************
.\"
.Id $Id: m9typ022.9,v 1.1.1.1 2000-07-25 22:04:09 jon Exp $
.Im MicroEmacs filetype
.so me.tni
.TH man 9
.XI man - "UNIX Manual Page"
.SH SYNOPSIS
man \- UNIX Manual page
.SH FILES
.na
.B hkman.emf
\- UNIX manual page hook definition
.ad
.SH EXTENSIONS
.na
\fB.man\fR \- UNIX manual page file
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBman\fR provides the hilighting of UNIX manual pages, generally acquired
through the 
.Ht man 3 
command, via a pipe. \fIman\fR references within the displayed manual page may
be accessed using the mouse in a hypertext fashion.
.IP \fBHilighting\fR
The   hilighting   commands   recognize   the  manual  page   \fIbold\fR   and
\fIunderline\fR  character  sequences and transpose these into the appropriate
character  hilighting.  The  hilighting  sequences  are  generally  unpleasant
because they also remove the characters for display.
.IP
The  multitude of different  platforms  causes  problems as different  vendors
produce different character sequences for \fIbold\fR/\fIitalic\fR  text, hence
on some  platforms it may be necessary to add additional  hilighting  rules to
cater for any local variations.
.IP "\fBShort Cuts\fR"
Selecting a link node within the manual page using the mouse (i.e. a reference
to another  manual  page) then \*(mE  attempts  to find the manual page in the
text and invokes
.Ht man 3 
to render the page. This  provides a crude hyper text  mechanism  simply using
the manual page information itself.
.RS
.IP \fBman-clean\fR
The local  buffer  macro  \fBman-clean\fR  takes the  current  manual page and
removes  all of the  hilighting  characters.  This is the  typical  method  of
reducing a manual page to plain text.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.na
.Ht man 3 ,
.sp 1
.Hl "Supported File Types" fileTypes -
.ad
.FH
